


Chapter One

The Call to Duty


Glinda, the good Sorceress of Oz, sat in the grand court of her palace,
surrounded by her maids of honor--a hundred of the most beautiful girls
of the Fairyland of Oz. The palace court was built of rare marbles,
exquisitely polished. Fountains tinkled musically here and there; the
vast colonnade, open to the south, allowed the maidens, as they raised
their heads from their embroideries, to gaze upon a vista of rose-hued
fields and groves of trees bearing fruits or laden with sweet-scented
flowers. At times one of the girls would start a song, the others
joining in the chorus, or one would rise and dance, gracefully swaying
to the music of a harp played by a companion. And then Glinda smiled,
glad to see her maids mixing play with work.

Presently among the fields an object was seen moving, threading the
broad path that led to the castle gate. Some of the girls looked upon
this object enviously; the Sorceress merely gave it a glance and nodded
her stately head as if pleased, for it meant the coming of her friend
and mistress--the only one in all the land that Glinda bowed to.

Then up the path trotted a wooden animal attached to a red wagon, and
as the quaint steed halted at the gate there descended from the wagon
two young girls, Ozma, Ruler of Oz, and her companion, Princess
Dorothy. Both were dressed in simple white muslin gowns, and as they
ran up the marble steps of the palace they laughed and chatted as gaily
as if they were not the most important persons in the world's loveliest
fairyland.

The maids of honor had risen and stood with bowed heads to greet the
royal Ozma, while Glinda came forward with outstretched arms to greet
her guests.

"We've just come on a visit, you know," said Ozma. "Both Dorothy and I
were wondering how we should pass the day when we happened to think
we'd not been to your Quadling Country for weeks, so we took the
Sawhorse and rode straight here."

"And we came so fast," added Dorothy, "that our hair is blown all
fuzzy, for the Sawhorse makes a wind of his own. Usually it's a day's
journey from the Em'rald City, but I don't s'pose we were two hours on
the way."

"You are most welcome," said Glinda the Sorceress, and led them through
the court to her magnificent reception hall. Ozma took the arm of her
hostess, but Dorothy lagged behind, kissing some of the maids she knew
best, talking with others, and making them all feel that she was their
friend. When at last she joined Glinda and Ozma in the reception hall,
she found them talking earnestly about the condition of the people, and
how to make them more happy and contented--although they were already
the happiest and most contented folks in all the world.

This interested Ozma, of course, but it didn't interest Dorothy very
much, so the little girl ran over to a big table on which was lying
open Glinda's Great Book of Records.

This Book is one of the greatest treasures in Oz, and the Sorceress
prizes it more highly than any of her magical possessions. That is the
reason it is firmly attached to the big marble table by means of golden
chains, and whenever Glinda leaves home she locks the Great Book
together with five jeweled padlocks, and carries the keys safely hidden
in her bosom.

I do not suppose there is any magical thing in any fairyland to compare
with the Record Book, on the pages of which are constantly being
printed a record of every event that happens in any part of the world,
at exactly the moment it happens.  And the records are always truthful,
although sometimes they do not give as many details as one could wish.
But then, lots of things happen, and so the records have to be brief or
even Glinda's Great Book could not hold them all.

Glinda looked at the records several times each day, and Dorothy,
whenever she visited the Sorceress, loved to look in the Book and see
what was happening everywhere. Not much was recorded about the Land of
Oz, which is usually peaceful and uneventful, but today Dorothy found
something which interested her. Indeed, the printed letters were
appearing on the page even while she looked.

"This is funny!" she exclaimed. "Did you know, Ozma, that there were
people in your Land of Oz called Skeezers?"

"Yes," replied Ozma, coming to her side, "I know that on Professor
Wogglebug's Map of the Land of Oz there is a place marked 'Skeezer,'
but what the Skeezers are like I do not know. No one I know has ever
seen them or heard of them. The Skeezer Country is 'way at the upper
edge of the Gillikin Country, with the sandy, impassable desert on one
side and the mountains of Oogaboo on another side. That is a part of
the Land of Oz of which I know very little."

"I guess no one else knows much about it either, unless it's the
Skeezers themselves," remarked Dorothy. "But the Book says: 'The
Skeezers of Oz have declared war on the Flatheads of Oz, and there is
likely to be fighting and much trouble as the result.'"

"Is that all the Book says?" asked Ozma.

"Every word," said Dorothy, and Ozma and Glinda both looked at the
Record and seemed surprised and perplexed.

"Tell me, Glinda," said Ozma, "who are the Flatheads?"

"I cannot, your Majesty," confessed the Sorceress. "Until now I never
have heard of them, nor have I ever heard the Skeezers mentioned. In
the faraway corners of Oz are hidden many curious tribes of people, and
those who never leave their own countries and never are visited by
those from our favored part of Oz, naturally are unknown to me.
However, if you so desire, I can learn through my arts of sorcery
something of the Skeezers and the Flatheads."

"I wish you would," answered Ozma seriously. "You see, Glinda, if these
are Oz people they are my subjects and I cannot allow any wars or
troubles in the Land I rule, if I can possibly help it."

"Very well, your Majesty," said the Sorceress, "I will try to get some
information to guide you. Please excuse me for a time, while I retire
to my Room of Magic and Sorcery."

"May I go with you?" asked Dorothy, eagerly.

"No, Princess," was the reply. "It would spoil the charm to have anyone
present."

So Glinda locked herself in her own Room of Magic and Dorothy and Ozma
waited patiently for her to come out again.

In about an hour Glinda appeared, looking grave and thoughtful.

"Your Majesty," she said to Ozma, "the Skeezers live on a Magic Isle in
a great lake. For that reason--because the Skeezers deal in magic--I
can learn little about them."

"Why, I didn't know there was a lake in that part of Oz," exclaimed
Ozma. "The map shows a river running through the Skeezer Country, but
no lake."

"That is because the person who made the map never had visited that
part of the country," explained the Sorceress. "The lake surely is
there, and in the lake is an island--a Magic Isle--and on that island
live the people called the Skeezers."

"What are they like?" inquired the Ruler of Oz.

"My magic cannot tell me that," confessed Glinda, "for the magic of the
Skeezers prevents anyone outside of their domain knowing anything about
them."

"The Flatheads must know, if they're going to fight the Skeezers,"
suggested Dorothy.

"Perhaps so," Glinda replied, "but I can get little information
concerning the Flatheads, either. They are people who inhabit a
mountain just south of the Lake of the Skeezers. The mountain has steep
sides and a broad, hollow top, like a basin, and in this basin the
Flatheads have their dwellings. They also are magic-workers and usually
keep to themselves and allow no one from outside to visit them. I have
learned that the Flatheads number about one hundred people--men, women
and children--while the Skeezers number just one hundred and one."

"What did they quarrel about, and why do they wish to fight one
another?" was Ozma's next question.

"I cannot tell your Majesty that," said Glinda.

"But see here!" cried Dorothy, "it's against the law for anyone but
Glinda and the Wizard to work magic in the Land of Oz, so if these two
strange people are magic-makers they are breaking the law and ought to
be punished!" Ozma smiled upon her little friend.

"Those who do not know me or my laws," she said, "cannot be expected to
obey my laws. If we know nothing of the Skeezers or the Flatheads, it
is likely that they know nothing of us."

"But they ought to know, Ozma, and we ought to know. Who's going to
tell them, and how are we going to make them behave?"

"That," returned Ozma, "is what I am now considering. What would you
advise, Glinda?"

The Sorceress took a little time to consider this question, before she
made reply. Then she said: "Had you not learned of the existence of the
Flatheads and the Skeezers, through my Book of Records, you would never
have worried about them or their quarrels. So, if you pay no attention
to these peoples, you may never hear of them again."

"But that wouldn't be right," declared Ozma. "I am Ruler of all the
Land of Oz, which includes the Gillikin Country, the Quadling Country,
the Winkie Country and the Munchkin Country, as well as the Emerald
City, and being the Princess of this fairyland it is my duty to make
all my people--wherever they may be--happy and content and to settle
their disputes and keep them from quarreling. So, while the Skeezers
and Flatheads may not know me or that I am their lawful Ruler, I now
know that they inhabit my kingdom and are my subjects, so I would not
be doing my duty if I kept away from them and allowed them to fight."

"That's  a  fact,  Ozma,"  commented  Dorothy. "You've got to go up to
the Gillikin Country and make these people behave themselves and make
up their quarrels. But how are you going to do it?"

"That is what is puzzling me also, your Majesty," said the Sorceress.
"It may be dangerous for you to go into those strange countries, where
the people are possibly fierce and warlike."

"I am not afraid," said Ozma, with a smile.

"'Tisn't a question of being 'fraid," argued Dorothy. "Of course we
know you're a fairy, and can't be killed or hurt, and we know you've a
lot of magic of your own to help you. But, Ozma dear, in spite of all
this you've been in trouble before, on account of wicked enemies, and
it isn't right for the Ruler of all Oz to put herself in danger."

"Perhaps I shall be in no danger at all," returned Ozma, with a little
laugh. "You mustn't imagine danger, Dorothy, for one should only
imagine nice things, and we do not know that the Skeezers and Flatheads
are wicked people or my enemies. Perhaps they would be good and listen
to reason."

"Dorothy is right, your Majesty," asserted the Sorceress. "It is true
we know nothing of these faraway subjects, except that they intend to
fight one another, and have a certain amount of magic power at their
command. Such folks do not like to submit to interference and they are
more likely to resent your coming among them than to receive you kindly
and graciously, as is your due."

"If you had an army to take with you," added Dorothy, "it wouldn't be
so bad; but there isn't such a thing as an army in all Oz."

"I have one soldier," said Ozma.

"Yes, the soldier with the green whiskers; but he's dreadful 'fraid of
his gun and never loads it. I'm sure he'd run rather than fight. And
one soldier, even if he were brave, couldn't do much against two
hundred and one Flatheads and Skeezers."

"What then, my friends, would you suggest?" inquired Ozma.

"I advise you to send the Wizard of Oz to them, and let him inform them
that it is against the laws of Oz to fight, and that you command them
to settle their differences and become friends," proposed Glinda. "Let
the Wizard tell them they will be punished if they refuse to obey the
commands of the Princess of all the Land of Oz."

Ozma shook her head, to indicate that the advice was not to her
satisfaction.

"If they refuse, what then?" she asked. "I should be obliged to carry
out my threat and punish them, and that would be an unpleasant and
difficult thing to do. I am sure it would be better for me to go
peacefully, without an army and armed only with my authority as Ruler,
and plead with them to obey me. Then, if they prove obstinate I could
resort to other means to win their obedience."

"It's a ticklish thing, anyhow you look at it," sighed Dorothy. "I'm
sorry now that I noticed the Record in the Great Book."

"But can't you realize, my dear, that I must do my duty, now that I am
aware of this trouble?" asked Ozma. "I am fully determined to go at
once to the Magic Isle of the Skeezers and to the enchanted mountain of
the Flatheads, and prevent war and strife between their inhabitants.
The only question to decide is whether it is better for me to go alone,
or to assemble a party of my friends and loyal supporters to accompany
me."

"If you go I want to go, too," declared Dorothy. "Whatever happens it's
going to be fun--'cause all excitement is fun--and I wouldn't miss it
for the world!"

Neither Ozma nor Glinda paid any attention to this statement, for they
were gravely considering the serious aspect of this proposed adventure.

"There are plenty of friends who would like to go with you," said the
Sorceress, "but none of them would afford your Majesty any protection
in case you were in danger. You are yourself the most powerful fairy in
Oz, although both I and the Wizard have more varied arts of magic at
our command. However, you have one art that no other in all the world
can equal--the art of winning hearts and making people love to bow to
your gracious presence. For that reason I believe you can accomplish
more good alone than with a large number of subjects in your train."

"I believe that also," agreed the Princess. "I shall be quite able to
take care of myself, you know, but might not be able to protect others
so well. I do not look for opposition, however. I shall speak to these
people in kindly words and settle their dispute--whatever it may be--in
a just manner."

"Aren't you going to take me?" pleaded Dorothy. "You'll need some
companion, Ozma."

The Princess smiled upon her little friend.

"I see no reason why you should not accompany me," was her reply. "Two
girls are not very warlike and they will not suspect us of being on any
errand but a kindly and peaceful one. But, in order to prevent war and
strife between these angry peoples, we must go to them at once. Let us
return immediately to the Emerald City and prepare to start on our
journey early tomorrow morning."

Glinda was not quite satisfied with this plan, but could not think of
any better way to meet the problem. She knew that Ozma, with all her
gentleness and sweet disposition, was accustomed to abide by any
decision she had made and could not easily be turned from her purpose.
Moreover she could see no great danger to the fairy Ruler of Oz in the
undertaking, even though the unknown people she was to visit proved
obstinate. But Dorothy was not a fairy; she was a little girl who had
come from Kansas to live in the Land of Oz. Dorothy might encounter
dangers that to Ozma would be as nothing but to an "Earth child" would
be very serious.

The very fact that Dorothy lived in Oz, and had been made a Princess by
her friend Ozma, prevented her from being killed or suffering any great
bodily pain as long as she lived in that fairyland. She could not grow
big, either, and would always remain the same little girl who had come
to Oz, unless in some way she left that fairyland or was spirited away
from it. But Dorothy was a mortal, nevertheless, and might possibly be
destroyed, or hidden where none of her friends could ever find her. She
could, for instance be cut into pieces, and the pieces, while still
alive and free from pain, could be widely scattered; or she might be
buried deep underground or "destroyed" in other ways by evil magicians,
were she not properly protected. These facts Glinda was considering
while she paced with stately tread her marble hall.

Finally the good Sorceress paused and drew a ring from her finger,
handing it to Dorothy.

"Wear this ring constantly until your return," she said to the girl.
"If serious danger threatens you, turn the ring around on your finger
once to the right and another turn to the left. That will ring the
alarm bell in my palace and I will at once come to your rescue. But do
not use the ring unless you are actually in danger of destruction.
While you remain with Princess Ozma I believe she will be able to
protect you from all lesser ills."

"Thank you, Glinda," responded Dorothy gratefully, as she placed the
ring on her finger. "I'm going to wear my Magic Belt which I took from
the Nome King, too, so I guess I'll be safe from anything the Skeezers
and Flatheads try to do to me."

Ozma had many arrangements to make before she could leave her throne
and her palace in the Emerald City, even for a trip of a few days, so
she bade goodbye to Glinda and with Dorothy climbed into the Red Wagon.
A word to the wooden Sawhorse started that astonishing creature on the
return journey, and so swiftly did he run that Dorothy was unable to
talk or do anything but hold tight to her seat all the way back to the
Emerald City.




Chapter Two

Ozma and Dorothy


Residing in Ozma's palace at this time was a live Scarecrow, a most
remarkable and intelligent creature who had once ruled the Land of Oz
for a brief period and was much loved and respected by all the people.
Once a Munchkin farmer had stuffed an old suit of clothes with straw
and put stuffed boots on the feet and used a pair of stuffed cotton
gloves for hands. The head of the Scarecrow was a stuffed sack fastened
to the body, with eyes, nose, mouth and ears painted on the sack. When
a hat had been put on the head, the thing was a good imitation of a
man. The farmer placed the Scarecrow on a pole in his cornfield and it
came to life in a curious manner. Dorothy, who was passing by the
field, was hailed by the live Scarecrow and lifted him off his pole. He
then went with her to the Emerald City, where the Wizard of Oz gave him
some excellent brains, and the Scarecrow soon became an important
personage.

Ozma considered the Scarecrow one of her best friends and most loyal
subjects, so the morning after her visit to Glinda she asked him to
take her place as Ruler of the Land of Oz while she was absent on a
journey, and the Scarecrow at once consented without asking any
questions.

Ozma had warned Dorothy to keep their journey a secret and say nothing
to anyone about the Skeezers and Flatheads until their return, and
Dorothy promised to obey. She longed to tell her girl friends, tiny
Trot and Betsy Bobbin, of the adventure they were undertaking, but
refrained from saying a word on the subject although both these girls
lived with her in Ozma's palace.

Indeed, only Glinda the Sorceress knew they were going, until after
they had gone, and even the Sorceress didn't know what their errand
might be.

Princess Ozma took the Sawhorse and the Red Wagon, although she was not
sure there was a wagon road all the way to the Lake of the Skeezers.
The Land of Oz is a pretty big place, surrounded on all sides by a
Deadly Desert which it is impossible to cross, and the Skeezer Country,
according to the map, was in the farthest northwestern part of Oz,
bordering on the north desert. As the Emerald City was exactly in the
center of Oz, it was no small journey from there to the Skeezers.

Around the Emerald City the country is thickly settled in every
direction, but the farther away you get from the city the fewer people
there are, until those parts that border on the desert have small
populations. Also those faraway sections are little known to the Oz
people, except in the south, where Glinda lives and where Dorothy has
often wandered on trips of exploration.

The least known of all is the Gillikin Country, which harbors many
strange bands of people among its mountains and valleys and forests and
streams, and Ozma was now bound for the most distant part of the
Gillikin Country.

"I am really sorry," said Ozma to Dorothy, as they rode away in the Red
Wagon, "not to know more about the wonderful Land I rule. It is my duty
to be acquainted with every tribe of people and every strange and
hidden country in all Oz, but I am kept so busy at my palace making
laws and planning for the comforts of those who live near the Emerald
City, that I do not often find time to make long journeys."

"Well," replied Dorothy, "we'll prob'bly find out a lot on this trip,
and we'll learn all about the Skeezers and Flatheads, anyhow. Time
doesn't make much diff'rence in the Land of Oz, 'cause we don't grow
up, or get old, or become sick and die, as they do other places; so, if
we explore one place at a time, we'll by-an'-by know all about every
nook and corner in Oz."

Dorothy wore around her waist the Nome King's Magic Belt, which
protected her from harm, and the Magic Ring which Glinda had given her
was on her finger. Ozma had merely slipped a small silver wand into the
bosom of her gown, for fairies do not use chemicals and herbs and the
tools of wizards and sorcerers to perform their magic. The Silver Wand
was Ozma's one weapon of offense and defense and by its use she could
accomplish many things.

They had left the Emerald City just at sunrise and the Sawhorse
traveled very swiftly over the roads towards the north, but in a few
hours the wooden animal had to slacken his pace because the farm houses
had become few and far between and often there were no paths at all in
the direction they wished to follow. At such times they crossed the
fields, avoiding groups of trees and fording the streams and rivulets
whenever they came to them. But finally they reached a broad hillside
closely covered with scrubby brush, through which the wagon could not
pass.

"It will be difficult even for you and me to get through without
tearing our dresses," said Ozma, "so we must leave the Sawhorse and the
Wagon here until our return."

"That's all right," Dorothy replied, "I'm tired riding, anyhow. Do you
s'pose, Ozma, we're anywhere near the Skeezer Country?"

"I cannot tell, Dorothy dear, but I know we've been going in the right
direction, so we are sure to find it in time."

The scrubby brush was almost like a grove of small trees, for it
reached as high as the heads of the two girls, neither of whom was very
tall. They were obliged to thread their way in and out, until Dorothy
was afraid they would get lost, and finally they were halted by a
curious thing that barred their further progress. It was a huge web--as
if woven by gigantic spiders--and the delicate, lacy film was fastened
stoutly to the branches of the bushes and continued to the right and
left in the form of a half circle. The threads of this web were of a
brilliant purple color and woven into numerous artistic patterns, but
it reached from the ground to branches above the heads of the girls and
formed a sort of fence that hedged them in.

"It doesn't look very strong, though," said Dorothy. "I wonder if we
couldn't break through." She tried but found the web stronger than it
seemed. All her efforts could not break a single thread.

"We must go back, I think, and try to get around this peculiar web,"
Ozma decided.

So they turned to the right and, following the web found that it seemed
to spread in a regular circle. On and on they went until finally Ozma
said they had returned to the exact spot from which they had started.
"Here is a handkerchief you dropped when we were here before," she said
to Dorothy.

"In that case, they must have built the web behind us, after we walked
into the trap," exclaimed the little girl.

"True," agreed Ozma, "an enemy has tried to imprison us."

"And they did it, too," said Dorothy. "I wonder who it was."

"It's a spider-web, I'm quite sure," returned Ozma, "but it must be the
work of enormous spiders."

"Quite right!" cried a voice behind them. Turning quickly around they
beheld a huge purple spider sitting not two yards away and regarding
them with its small bright eyes.

Then there crawled from the bushes a dozen more great purple spiders,
which saluted the first one and said:

"The web is finished, O King, and the strangers are our prisoners."

Dorothy did not like the looks of these spiders at all. They had big
heads, sharp claws, small eyes and fuzzy hair all over their purple
bodies.

"They look wicked," she whispered to Ozma. "What shall we do?"

Ozma gazed upon the spiders with a serious face.

"What is your object in making us prisoners?" she inquired.

"We need someone to keep house for us," answered the Spider King.
"There is sweeping and dusting to be done, and polishing and washing of
dishes, and that is work my people dislike to do. So we decided that if
any strangers came our way we would capture them and make them our
servants."

"I am Princess Ozma, Ruler of all Oz," said the girl with dignity.

"Well, I am King of all Spiders," was the reply, "and that makes me
your master. Come with me to my palace and I will instruct you in your
work."

"I won't," said Dorothy indignantly. "We won't have anything to do with
you."

"We'll see about that," returned the Spider in a severe tone, and the
next instant he made a dive straight at Dorothy, opening the claws in
his legs as if to grab and pinch her with the sharp points. But the
girl was wearing her Magic Belt and was not harmed. The Spider King
could not even touch her. He turned swiftly and made a dash at Ozma,
but she held her Magic Wand over his head and the monster recoiled as
if it had been struck.

"You'd better let us go," Dorothy advised him, "for you see you can't
hurt us."

"So I see," returned the Spider King angrily. "Your magic is greater
than mine. But I'll not help you to escape. If you can break the magic
web my people have woven you may go; if not you must stay here and
starve." With that the Spider King uttered a peculiar whistle and all
the spiders disappeared.

"There is more magic in my fairyland than I dreamed of," remarked the
beautiful Ozma, with a sigh of regret. "It seems that my laws have not
been obeyed, for even these monstrous spiders defy me by means of
Magic."

"Never mind that now," said Dorothy; "let's see what we can do to get
out of this trap."

They now examined the web with great care and were amazed at its
strength. Although finer than the finest silken hairs, it resisted all
their efforts to work through, even though both girls threw all their
weight against it.

"We must find some instrument which will cut the threads of the web,"
said Ozma, finally. "Let us look about for such a tool."

So they wandered among the bushes and finally came to a shallow pool of
water, formed by a small bubbling spring. Dorothy stooped to get a
drink and discovered in the water a green crab, about as big as her
hand. The crab had two big, sharp claws, and as soon as Dorothy saw
them she had an idea that those claws could save them.

"Come out of the water," she called to the crab; "I want to talk to
you."

Rather lazily the crab rose to the surface and caught hold of a bit of
rock. With his head above the water he said in a cross voice:

"What do you want?"

"We want you to cut the web of the purple spiders with your claws, so
we can get through it," answered Dorothy. "You can do that, can't you?"

"I suppose so," replied the crab. "But if I do what will you give me?"

"What do you wish?" Ozma inquired.

"I wish to be white, instead of green," said the crab. "Green crabs are
very common, and white ones are rare; besides the purple spiders, which
infest this hillside, are afraid of white crabs. Could you make me
white if I should agree to cut the web for you?"

"Yes," said Ozma, "I can do that easily. And, so you may know I am
speaking the truth, I will change your color now."

She waved her silver wand over the pool and the crab instantly became
snow-white--all except his eyes, which remained black. The creature saw
his reflection in the water and was so delighted that he at once
climbed out of the pool and began moving slowly toward the web, by
backing away from the pool. He moved so very slowly that Dorothy cried
out impatiently: "Dear me, this will never do!" Caching the crab in her
hands she ran with him to the web.

She had to hold him up even then, so he could reach with his claws
strand after strand of the filmy purple web, which he was able to sever
with one nip.

When enough of the web had been cut to allow them to pass, Dorothy ran
back to the pool and placed the white crab in the water, after which
she rejoined Ozma. They were just in time to escape through the web,
for several of the purple spiders now appeared, having discovered that
their web had been cut, and had the girls not rushed through the
opening the spiders would have quickly repaired the cuts and again
imprisoned them.

Ozma and Dorothy ran as fast as they could and although the angry
spiders threw a number of strands of web after them, hoping to lasso
them or entangle them in the coils, they managed to escape and clamber
to the top of the hill.




Chapter Three

The Mist Maidens


From the top of the hill Ozma and Dorothy looked down into the valley
beyond and were surprised to find it filled with a floating mist that
was as dense as smoke. Nothing in the valley was visible except these
rolling waves of mist, but beyond, on the other side, rose a grassy
hill that appeared quite beautiful.

"Well," said Dorothy, "what are we to do, Ozma? Walk down into that
thick fog, an' prob'bly get lost in it, or wait till it clears away?"

"I'm not sure it will clear away, however long we wait," replied Ozma,
doubtfully. "If we wish to get on, I think we must venture into the
mist."

"But we can't see where we're going, or what we're stepping on,"
protested Dorothy.  "There may be dreadful things mixed up in that fog,
an' I'm scared just to think of wading into it."

Even Ozma seemed to hesitate. She was silent and thoughtful for a
little while, looking at the rolling drifts that were so gray and
forbidding. Finally she said:

"I believe this is a Mist Valley, where these moist clouds always
remain, for even the sunshine above does not drive them away. Therefore
the Mist Maids must live here, and they are fairies and should answer
my call."

She placed her two hands before her mouth, forming a hollow with them,
and uttered a clear, thrilling, bird-like cry. It floated far out over
the mist waves and presently was answered by a similar sound, as of a
far-off echo.

Dorothy was much impressed. She had seen many strange things since
coming to this fairy country, but here was a new experience. At
ordinary times Ozma was just like any little girl one might chance to
meet--simple, merry, lovable as could be--yet with a certain reserve
that lent her dignity in her most joyous moods. There were times,
however, when seated on her throne and commanding her subjects, or when
her fairy powers were called into use, when Dorothy and all others
about her stood in awe of their lovely girl Ruler and realized her
superiority.

Ozma waited. Presently out from the billows rose beautiful forms,
clothed in fleecy, trailing garments of gray that could scarcely be
distinguished from the mist. Their hair was mist-color, too; only their
gleaming arms and sweet, pallid faces proved they were living,
intelligent creatures answering the call of a sister fairy.

Like sea nymphs they rested on the bosom of the clouds, their eyes
turned questioningly upon the two girls who stood upon the bank. One
came quite near and to her Ozma said:

"Will you please take us to the opposite hillside? We are afraid to
venture into the mist. I am Princess Ozma of Oz, and this is my friend
Dorothy, a Princess of Oz."

The Mist Maids came nearer, holding out their arms. Without hesitation
Ozma advanced and allowed them to embrace her and Dorothy plucked up
courage to follow. Very gently the Mist Maids held them. Dorothy
thought the arms were cold and misty--they didn't seem real at all--yet
they supported the two girls above the surface of the billows and
floated with them so swiftly to the green hillside opposite that the
girls were astonished to find themselves set upon the grass before they
realized they had fairly started.

"Thank you!" said Ozma gratefully, and Dorothy also added her thanks
for the service.

The Mist Maids made no answer, but they smiled and waved their hands in
good-bye as again they floated out into the mist and disappeared from
view.




Chapter Four

The Magic Tent


"Well," said Dorothy with a laugh, "that was easier than I expected.
It's worth while, sometimes, to be a real fairy. But I wouldn't like to
be that kind, and live in a dreadful fog all the time."

They now climbed the bank and found before them a delightful plain that
spread for miles in all directions. Fragrant wild flowers were
scattered throughout the grass; there were bushes bearing lovely
blossoms and luscious fruits; now and then a group of stately trees
added to the beauty of the landscape. But there were no dwellings or
signs of life.

The farther side of the plain was bordered by a row of palms, and just
in front of the palms rose a queerly shaped hill that towered above the
plain like a mountain. The sides of this hill were straight up and
down; it was oblong in shape and the top seemed flat and level.

"Oh, ho!" cried Dorothy; "I'll bet that's the mountain Glinda told us
of, where the Flatheads live."

"If it is," replied Ozma, "the Lake of the Skeezers must be just beyond
the line of palm trees. Can you walk that far, Dorothy?"

"Of course, in time," was the prompt answer. "I'm sorry we had to leave
the Sawhorse and the Red Wagon behind us, for they'd come in handy just
now; but with the end of our journey in sight a tramp across these
pretty green fields won't tire us a bit."

It was a longer tramp than they suspected, however, and night overtook
them before they could reach the flat mountain. So Ozma proposed they
camp for the night and Dorothy was quite ready to approve. She didn't
like to admit to her friend she was tired, but she told herself that
her legs "had prickers in 'em," meaning they had begun to ache.

Usually when Dorothy started on a journey of exploration or adventure,
she carried with her a basket of food, and other things that a traveler
in a strange country might require, but to go away with Ozma was quite
a different thing, as experience had taught her. The fairy Ruler of Oz
only needed her silver wand--tipped at one end with a great sparkling
emerald--to provide through its magic all that they might need.
Therefore Ozma, having halted with her companion and selected a smooth,
grassy spot on the plain, waved her wand in graceful curves and chanted
some mystic words in her sweet voice, and in an instant a handsome tent
appeared before them. The canvas was striped purple and white, and from
the center pole fluttered the royal banner of Oz.

"Come, dear," said Ozma, taking Dorothy's hand, "I am hungry and I'm
sure you must be also; so let us go in and have our feast."

On entering the tent they found a table set for two, with snowy linen,
bright silver and sparkling glassware, a vase of roses in the center
and many dishes of delicious food, some smoking hot, waiting to satisfy
their hunger. Also, on either side of the tent were beds, with satin
sheets, warm blankets and pillows filled with swansdown. There were
chairs, too, and tall lamps that lighted the interior of the tent with
a soft, rosy glow.

Dorothy, resting herself at her fairy friend's command, and eating her
dinner with unusual enjoyment, thought of the wonders of magic. If one
were a fairy and knew the secret laws of nature and the mystic words
and ceremonies that commanded those laws, then a simple wave of a
silver wand would produce instantly all that men work hard and
anxiously for through weary years. And Dorothy wished in her kindly,
innocent heart, that all men and women could be fairies with silver
wands, and satisfy all their needs without so much work and worry, for
then, she imagined, they would have all their working hours to be happy
in. But Ozma, looking into her friend's face and reading those
thoughts, gave a laugh and said:

"No, no, Dorothy, that wouldn't do at all. Instead of happiness your
plan would bring weariness to the world. If every one could wave a wand
and have his wants fulfilled there would be little to wish for. There
would be no eager striving to obtain the difficult, for nothing would
then be difficult, and the pleasure of earning something longed for,
and only to be secured by hard work and careful thought, would be
utterly lost. There would be nothing to do you see, and no interest in
life and in our fellow creatures. That is all that makes life worth our
while--to do good deeds and to help those less fortunate than
ourselves."

"Well, you're a fairy, Ozma. Aren't you happy?" asked Dorothy.

"Yes, dear, because I can use my fairy powers to make others happy. Had
I no kingdom to rule, and no subjects to look after, I would be
miserable. Also, you must realize that while I am a more powerful fairy
than any other inhabitant of Oz, I am not as powerful as Glinda the
Sorceress, who has studied many arts of magic that I know nothing of.
Even the little Wizard of Oz can do some things I am unable to
accomplish, while I can accomplish things unknown to the Wizard. This
is to explain that I'm not all-powerful, by any means. My magic is
simply fairy magic, and not sorcery or wizardry."

"All the same," said Dorothy, "I'm mighty glad you could make this tent
appear, with our dinners and beds all ready for us."

Ozma smiled.

"Yes, it is indeed wonderful," she agreed. "Not all fairies know that
sort of magic, but some fairies can do magic that fills me with
astonishment. I think that is what makes us modest and unassuming--the
fact that our magic arts are divided, some being given each of us. I'm
glad I don't know everything, Dorothy, and that there still are things
in both nature and in wit for me to marvel at."

Dorothy couldn't quite understand this, so she said nothing more on the
subject and presently had a new reason to marvel. For when they had
quite finished their meal table and contents disappeared in a flash.

"No dishes to wash, Ozma!" she said with a laugh. "I guess you'd make a
lot of folks happy if you could teach 'em just that one trick."

For an hour Ozma told stories, and talked with Dorothy about various
people in whom they were interested. And then it was bedtime, and they
undressed and crept into their soft beds and fell asleep almost as soon
as their heads touched their pillows.




Chapter Five

The Magic Stairway


The flat mountain looked much nearer in the clear light of the morning
sun, but Dorothy and Ozma knew there was a long tramp before them, even
yet. They finished dressing only to find a warm, delicious breakfast
awaiting them, and having eaten they left the tent and started toward
the mountain which was their first goal. After going a little way
Dorothy looked back and found that the fairy tent had entirely
disappeared. She was not surprised, for she knew this would happen.

"Can't your magic give us a horse an' wagon, or an automobile?"
inquired Dorothy.

"No, dear; I'm sorry that such magic is beyond my power," confessed her
fairy friend.

"Perhaps Glinda could," said Dorothy thoughtfully.

"Glinda has a stork chariot that carries her through the air," said
Ozma, "but even our great Sorceress cannot conjure up other modes of
travel. Don't forget what I told you last night, that no one is
powerful enough to do everything."

"Well, I s'pose I ought to know that, having lived so long in the Land
of Oz," replied Dorothy; "but I can't do any magic at all, an' so I
can't figure out e'zactly how you an' Glinda an' the Wizard do it."

"Don't try," laughed Ozma. "But you have at least one magical art,
Dorothy: you know the trick of winning all hearts."

"No, I don't," said Dorothy earnestly. "If I really can do it, Ozma, I
am sure I don't know how I do it."

It took them a good two hours to reach the foot of the round, flat
mountain, and then they found the sides so steep that they were like
the wall of a house.

"Even my purple kitten couldn't climb 'em," remarked Dorothy, gazing
upward.

"But there is some way for the Flatheads to get down and up again,"
declared Ozma; "otherwise they couldn't make war with the Skeezers, or
even meet them and quarrel with them."

"That's so, Ozma. Let's walk around a ways; perhaps we'll find a ladder
or something."

They walked quite a distance, for it was a big mountain, and as they
circled around it and came to the side that faced the palm trees, they
suddenly discovered an entrance way cut out of the rock wall. This
entrance was arched overhead and not very deep because it merely led to
a short flight of stone stairs.

"Oh, we've found a way to the top at last," announced Ozma, and the two
girls turned and walked straight toward the entrance. Suddenly they
bumped against something and stood still, unable to proceed farther.

"Dear me!" exclaimed Dorothy, rubbing her nose, which had struck
something hard, although she could not see what it was; "this isn't as
easy as it looks. What has stopped us, Ozma? Is it magic of some sort?"

Ozma was feeling around, her bands outstretched before her.

"Yes, dear, it is magic," she replied. "The Flatheads had to have a way
from their mountain top from the plain below, but to prevent enemies
from rushing up the stairs to conquer them, they have built, at a small
distance before the entrance a wall of solid stone, the stones being
held in place by cement, and then they made the wall invisible."

"I wonder why they did that?" mused Dorothy. "A wall would keep folks
out anyhow, whether it could be seen or not, so there wasn't any use
making it invisible. Seems to me it would have been better to have left
it solid, for then no one would have seen the entrance behind it. Now
anybody can see the entrance, as we did. And prob'bly anybody that
tries to go up the stairs gets bumped, as we did."

Ozma made no reply at once. Her face was grave and thoughtful.

"I think I know the reason for making the wall invisible," she said
after a while. "The Flatheads use the stairs for coming down and going
up. If there was a solid stone wall to keep them from reaching the
plain they would themselves be imprisoned by the wall. So they had to
leave some place to get around the wall, and, if the wall was visible,
all strangers or enemies would find the place to go around it and then
the wall would be useless. So the Flatheads cunningly made their wall
invisible, believing that everyone who saw the entrance to the mountain
would walk straight toward it, as we did, and find it impossible to go
any farther. I suppose the wall is really high and thick, and can't be
broken through, so those who find it in their way are obliged to go
away again."

"Well," said Dorothy, "if there's a way around the wall, where is it?"

"We must find it," returned Ozma, and began feeling her way along the
wall. Dorothy followed and began to get discouraged when Ozma had
walked nearly a quarter of a mile away from the entrance. But now the
invisible wall curved in toward the side of the mountain and suddenly
ended, leaving just space enough between the wall and the mountain for
an ordinary person to pass through.

The girls went in, single file, and Ozma explained that they were now
behind the barrier and could go back to the entrance. They met no
further obstructions.

"Most people, Ozma, wouldn't have figured this thing out the way you
did," remarked Dorothy. "If I'd been alone the invisible wall surely
would have stumped me."

Reaching the entrance they began to mount the stone stairs. They went
up ten stairs and then down five stairs, following a passage cut from
the rock. The stairs were just wide enough for the two girls to walk
abreast, arm in arm. At the bottom of the five stairs the passage
turned to the right, and they ascended ten more stairs, only to find at
the top of the flight five stairs leading straight down again. Again
the passage turned abruptly, this time to the left, and ten more stairs
led upward.

The passage was now quite dark, for they were in the heart of the
mountain and all daylight had been shut out by the turns of the
passage. However, Ozma drew her silver wand from her bosom and the
great jewel at its end gave out a lustrous, green-tinted light which
lighted the place well enough for them to see their way plainly.

Ten steps up, five steps down, and a turn, this way or that. That was
the program, and Dorothy figured that they were only gaining five
stairs upward each trip that they made.

"Those Flatheads must be funny people," she said to Ozma. "They don't
seem to do anything in a bold straightforward manner. In making this
passage they forced everyone to walk three times as far as is
necessary. And of course this trip is just as tiresome to the Flatheads
as it is to other folks."

"That is true," answered Ozma; "yet it is a clever arrangement to
prevent their being surprised by intruders. Every time we reach the
tenth step of a flight, the pressure of our feet on the stone makes a
bell ring on top of the mountain, to warn the Flatheads of our coming."

"How do you know that?" demanded Dorothy, astonished.

"I've heard the bell ever since we started," Ozma told her. "You could
not hear it, I know, but when I am holding my wand in my hand I can
hear sounds a great distance off."

"Do you hear anything on top of the mountain 'cept the bell?" inquired
Dorothy.

"Yes. The people are calling to one another in alarm and many footsteps
are approaching the place where we will reach the flat top of the
mountain."

This made Dorothy feel somewhat anxious. "I'd thought we were going to
visit just common, ordinary people," she remarked, "but they're pretty
clever, it seems, and they know some kinds of magic, too. They may be
dangerous, Ozma. P'raps we'd better stayed at home."

Finally the upstairs-and-downstairs passage seemed coming to an end,
for daylight again appeared ahead of the two girls and Ozma replaced
her wand in the bosom of her gown. The last ten steps brought them to
the surface, where they found themselves surrounded by such a throng of
queer people that for a time they halted, speechless, and stared into
the faces that confronted them.

Dorothy knew at once why these mountain people were called Flatheads.
Their heads were really flat on top, as if they had been cut off just
above the eyes and ears. Also the heads were bald, with no hair on top
at all, and the ears were big and stuck straight out, and the noses
were small and stubby, while the mouths of the Flatheads were well
shaped and not unusual. Their eyes were perhaps their best feature,
being large and bright and a deep violet in color.

The costumes of the Flatheads were all made of metals dug from their
mountain. Small gold, silver, tin and iron discs, about the size of
pennies, and very thin, were cleverly wired together and made to form
knee trousers and jackets for the men and skirts and waists for the
women. The colored metals were skillfully mixed to form stripes and
checks of various sorts, so that the costumes were quite gorgeous and
reminded Dorothy of pictures she had seen of Knights of old clothed
armor.

Aside from their flat heads, these people were not really bad looking.
The men were armed with bows and arrows and had small axes of steel
stuck in their metal belts. They wore no hats nor ornaments.




Chapter Six

Flathead Mountain


When they saw that the intruders on their mountain were only two little
girls, the Flatheads grunted with satisfaction and drew back,
permitting them to see what the mountain top looked like. It was shaped
like a saucer, so that the houses and other buildings--all made of
rocks--could not be seen over the edge by anyone standing in the plain
below.

But now a big fat Flathead stood before the girls and in a gruff voice
demanded:

"What are you doing here? Have the Skeezers sent you to spy upon us?"

"I am Princess Ozma, Ruler of all the Land of Oz."

"Well, I've never heard of the Land of Oz, so you may be what you
claim," returned the Flathead.

"This is the Land of Oz--part of it, anyway," exclaimed Dorothy. "So
Princess Ozma rules you Flathead people, as well as all the other
people in Oz."

The man laughed, and all the others who stood around laughed, too. Some
one in the crowd called:

"She'd better not tell the Supreme Dictator about ruling the Flatheads.
Eh, friends?"

"No, indeed!" they all answered in positive tones.

"Who is your Supreme Dictator?" answered Ozma.

"I think I'll let him tell you that himself," answered the man who had
first spoken. "You have broken our laws by coming here; and whoever you
are the Supreme Dictator must fix your punishment. Come along with me."

He started down a path and Ozma and Dorothy followed him without
protest, as they wanted to see the most important person in this queer
country. The houses they passed seemed pleasant enough and each had a
little yard in which were flowers and vegetables. Walls of rock
separated the dwellings, and all the paths were paved with smooth slabs
of rock. This seemed their only building material and they utilized it
cleverly for every purpose.

Directly in the center of the great saucer stood a larger building
which the Flathead informed the girls was the palace of the Supreme
Dictator. He led them through an entrance hall into a big reception
room, where they sat upon stone benches and awaited the coming of the
Dictator. Pretty soon he entered from another room--a rather lean and
rather old Flathead, dressed much like the others of this strange race,
and only distinguished from them by the sly and cunning expression of
his face. He kept his eyes half closed and looked through the slits of
them at Ozma and Dorothy, who rose to receive him.

"Are you the Supreme Dictator of the Flatheads?" inquired Ozma.

"Yes, that's me," he said, rubbing his hands slowly together. "My word
is law. I'm the head of the Flatheads on this flat headland."

"I am Princess Ozma of Oz, and I have come from the Emerald City to--"

"Stop a minute," interrupted the Dictator, and turned to the man who
had brought the girls there. "Go away, Dictator Felo Flathead!" he
commanded. "Return to your duty and guard the Stairway. I will look
after these strangers." The man bowed and departed, and Dorothy asked
wonderingly:

"Is he a Dictator, too?"

"Of course," was the answer. "Everybody here is a dictator of something
or other. They're all office holders. That's what keeps them contented.
But I'm the Supreme Dictator of all, and I'm elected once a year. This
is a democracy, you know, where the people are allowed to vote for
their rulers. A good many others would like to be Supreme Dictator, but
as I made a law that I am always to count the votes myself, I am always
elected."

"What is your name?" asked Ozma.

"I am called the Su-dic, which is short for Supreme Dictator. I sent
that man away because the moment you mentioned Ozma of Oz, and the
Emerald City, I knew who you are. I suppose I'm the only Flathead that
ever heard of you, but that's because I have more brains than the rest."

Dorothy was staring hard at the Su-dic.

"I don't see how you can have any brains at all," she remarked,
"because the part of your head is gone where brains are kept."

"I don't blame you for thinking that," he said. "Once the Flatheads had
no brains because, as you say, there is no upper part to their heads,
to hold brains. But long, long ago a band of fairies flew over this
country and made it all a fairyland, and when they came to the
Flatheads the fairies were sorry to find them all very stupid and quite
unable to think. So, as there was no good place in their bodies in
which to put brains the Fairy Queen gave each one of us a nice can of
brains to carry in his pocket and that made us just as intelligent as
other people. See," he continued, "here is one of the cans of brains
the fairies gave us." He took from a pocket a bright tin can having a
pretty red label on it which said: "Concentrated Brains, Extra Quality."

"And does every Flathead have the same kind of brains?" asked Dorothy.

"Yes, they're all alike. Here's another can." From another pocket he
produced a second can of brains.

"Did the fairies give you a double supply?" inquired Dorothy.

"No, but one of the Flatheads thought he wanted to be the Su-dic and
tried to get my people to rebel against me, so I punished him by taking
away his brains. One day my wife scolded me severely, so I took away
her can of brains. She didn't like that and went out and robbed several
women of their brains. Then I made a law that if anyone stole another's
brains, or even tried to borrow them, he would forfeit his own brains
to the Su-dic. So each one is content with his own canned brains and my
wife and I are the only ones on the mountain with more than one can. I
have three cans and that makes me very clever--so clever that I'm a
good Sorcerer, if I do say it myself. My poor wife had four cans of
brains and became a remarkable witch, but alas! that was before those
terrible enemies, the Skeezers, transformed her into a Golden Pig."

"Good gracious!" cried Dorothy; "is your wife really a Golden Pig?"

"She is. The Skeezers did it and so I have declared war on them. In
revenge for making my wife a Pig I intend to ruin their Magic Island
and make the Skeezers the slaves of the Flatheads!"

The Su-dic was very angry now; his eyes flashed and his face took on a
wicked and fierce expression. But Ozma said to him, very sweetly and in
a friendly voice:

"I am sorry to hear this. Will you please tell me more about your
troubles with the Skeezers?  Then perhaps I can help you."

She was only a girl, but there was dignity in her pose and speech which
impressed the Su-dic.

"If you are really Princess Ozma of Oz," the Flathead said, "you are
one of that band of fairies who, under Queen Lurline, made all Oz a
Fairyland. I have heard that Lurline left one of her own fairies to
rule Oz, and gave the fairy the name of Ozma."

"If you knew this why did you not come to me at the Emerald City and
tender me your loyalty and obedience?" asked the Ruler of Oz.

"Well, I only learned the fact lately, and I've been too busy to leave
home," he explained, looking at the floor instead of into Ozma's eyes.
She knew he had spoken a falsehood, but only said:

"Why did you quarrel with the Skeezers?"

"It was this way," began the Su-dic, glad to change the subject. "We
Flatheads love fish, and as we have no fish on this mountain we would
sometimes go to the Lake of the Skeezers to catch fish. This made the
Skeezers angry, for they declared the fish in their lake belonged to
them and were under their protection and they forbade us to catch them.
That was very mean and unfriendly in the Skeezers, you must admit, and
when we paid no attention to their orders they set a guard on the shore
of the lake to prevent our fishing.

"Now, my wife, Rora Flathead, having four cans of brains, had become a
wonderful witch, and fish being brain food, she loved to eat fish
better than any one of us. So she vowed she would destroy every fish in
the lake, unless the Skeezers let us catch what we wanted. They defied
us, so Rora prepared a kettleful of magic poison and went down to the
lake one night to dump it all in the water and poison the fish. It was
a clever idea, quite worthy of my dear wife, but the Skeezer Queen--a
young lady named Coo-ee-oh--hid on the bank of the lake and taking Rora
unawares, transformed her into a Golden Pig. The poison was spilled on
the ground and wicked Queen Coo-ee-oh, not content with her cruel
transformation, even took away my wife's four cans of brains, so she is
now a common grunting pig without even brains enough to know her own
name."

"Then," said Ozma thoughtfully, "the Queen of the Skeezers must be a
Sorceress."

"Yes," said the Su-dic, "but she doesn't know much magic, after all.
She is not as powerful as Rora Flathead was, nor half as powerful as I
am now, as Queen Coo-ee-oh will discover when we fight our great battle
and destroy her."

"The Golden Pig can't be a witch any more, of course," observed Dorothy.

"No; even had Queen Coo-ee-oh left her the four cans of brains, poor
Rora, in a pig's shape, couldn't do any witchcraft. A witch has to use
her fingers, and a pig has only cloven hoofs."

"It seems a sad story," was Ozma's comment, "and all the trouble arose
because the Flatheads wanted fish that did not belong to them."

"As for that," said the Su-dic, again angry, "I made a law that any of
my people could catch fish in the Lake of the Skeezers, whenever they
wanted to. So the trouble was through the Skeezers defying my law."

"You can only make laws to govern your own people," asserted Ozma
sternly. "I, alone, am empowered to make laws that must be obeyed by
all the peoples of Oz."

"Pooh!" cried the Su-dic scornfully. "You can't make me obey your laws,
I assure you. I know the extent of your powers, Princess Ozma of Oz,
and I know that I am more powerful than you are. To prove it I shall
keep you and your companion prisoners in this mountain until after we
have fought and conquered the Skeezers. Then, if you promise to be
good, I may let you go home again."

Dorothy was amazed by this effrontery and defiance of the beautiful
girl Ruler of Oz, whom all until now had obeyed without question. But
Ozma, still unruffled and dignified, looked at the Su-dic and said:

"You did not mean that. You are angry and speak unwisely, without
reflection. I came here from my palace in the Emerald City to prevent
war and to make peace between you and the Skeezers. I do not approve of
Queen Coo-ee-oh's action in transforming your wife Rora into a pig, nor
do I approve of Rora's cruel attempt to poison the fishes in the lake.
No one has the right to work magic in my dominions without my consent,
so the Flatheads and the Skeezers have both broken my laws--which must
be obeyed."

"If you want to make peace," said the Su-dic, "make the Skeezers
restore my wife to her proper form and give back her four cans of
brains. Also make them agree to allow us to catch fish in their lake."

"No," returned Ozma, "I will not do that, for it would be unjust. I
will have the Golden Pig again transformed into your wife Rora, and
give her one can of brains, but the other three cans must be restored
to those she robbed. Neither may you catch fish in the Lake of the
Skeezers, for it is their lake and the fish belong to them. This
arrangement is just and honorable, and you must agree to it."

"Never!" cried the Su-dic. Just then a pig came running into the room,
uttering dismal grunts. It was made of solid gold, with joints at the
bends of the legs and in the neck and jaws. The Golden Pig's eyes were
rubies, and its teeth were polished ivory.

"There!" said the Su-dic, "gaze on the evil work of Queen Coo-ee-oh,
and then say if you can prevent my making war on the Skeezers. That
grunting beast was once my wife--the most beautiful Flathead on our
mountain and a skillful witch. Now look at her!"

"Fight the Skeezers, fight the Skeezers, fight the Skeezers!" grunted
the Golden Pig.

"I will fight the Skeezers," exclaimed the Flathead chief, "and if a
dozen Ozmas of Oz forbade me I would fight just the same."

"Not if I can prevent it!" asserted Ozma.

"You can't prevent it. But since you threaten me, I'll have you
confined in the bronze prison until the war is over," said the Su-dic.
He whistled and four stout Flatheads, armed with axes and spears,
entered the room and saluted him. Turning to the men he said: "Take
these two girls, bind them with wire ropes and cast them into the
bronze prison."

The four men bowed low and one of them asked:

"Where are the two girls, most noble Su-dic?"

The Su-dic turned to where Ozma and Dorothy had stood but they had
vanished!




Chapter Seven

The Magic Isle


Ozma, seeing it was useless to argue with the Supreme Dictator of the
Flatheads, had been considering how best to escape from his power. She
realized that his sorcery might be difficult to overcome, and when he
threatened to cast Dorothy and her into a bronze prison she slipped her
hand into her bosom and grasped her silver wand. With the other hand
she grasped the hand of Dorothy, but these motions were so natural that
the Su-dic did not notice them. Then when he turned to meet his four
soldiers, Ozma instantly rendered both herself and Dorothy invisible
and swiftly led her companion around the group of Flatheads and out of
the room. As they reached the entry and descended the stone steps, Ozma
whispered:

"Let us run, dear! We are invisible, so no one will see us."

Dorothy understood and she was a good runner. Ozma had marked the place
where the grand stairway that led to the plain was located, so they
made directly for it. Some people were in the paths but these they
dodged around. One or two Flatheads heard the pattering of footsteps of
the girls on the stone pavement and stopped with bewildered looks to
gaze around them, but no one interfered with the invisible fugitives.

The Su-dic had lost no time in starting the chase. He and his men ran
so fast that they might have overtaken the girls before they reached
the stairway had not the Golden Pig suddenly run across their path. The
Su-dic tripped over the pig and fell flat, and his four men tripped
over him and tumbled in a heap. Before they could scramble up and reach
the mouth of the passage it was too late to stop the two girls.

There was a guard on each side of the stairway, but of course they did
not see Ozma and Dorothy as they sped past and descended the steps.
Then they had to go up five steps and down another ten, and so on, in
the same manner in which they had climbed to the top of the mountain.
Ozma lighted their way with her wand and they kept on without relaxing
their speed until they reached the bottom. Then they ran to the right
and turned the corner of the invisible wall just as the Su-dic and his
followers rushed out of the arched entrance and looked around in an
attempt to discover the fugitives.

Ozma now knew they were safe, so she told Dorothy to stop and both of
them sat down on the grass until they could breathe freely and become
rested from their mad flight.

As for the Su-dic, he realized he was foiled and soon turned and
climbed his stairs again. He was very angry--angry with Ozma and angry
with himself--because, now that he took time to think, he remembered
that he knew very well the art of making people invisible, and visible
again, and if he had only thought of it in time he could have used his
magic knowledge to make the girls visible and so have captured them
easily. However, it was now too late for regrets and he determined to
make preparations at once to march all his forces against the Skeezers.

"What shall we do next?" asked Dorothy, when they were rested.

"Let us find the Lake of the Skeezers," replied Ozma. "From what that
dreadful Su-dic said I imagine the Skeezers are good people and worthy
of our friendship, and if we go to them we may help them to defeat the
Flatheads."

"I s'pose we can't stop the war now," remarked Dorothy reflectively, as
they walked toward the row of palm trees.

"No; the Su-dic is determined to fight the Skeezers, so all we can do
is to warn them of their danger and help them as much as possible."

"Of course you'll punish the Flatheads," said Dorothy.

"Well, I do not think the Flathead people are as much to blame as their
Supreme Dictator," was the answer. "If he is removed from power and his
unlawful magic taken from him, the people will probably be good and
respect the laws of the Land of Oz, and live at peace with all their
neighbors in the future."

"I hope so," said Dorothy with a sigh of doubt

The palms were not far from the mountain and the girls reached them
after a brisk walk. The huge trees were set close together, in three
rows, and had been planted so as to keep people from passing them, but
the Flatheads had cut a passage through this barrier and Ozma found the
path and led Dorothy to the other side.

Beyond the palms they discovered a very beautiful scene. Bordered by a
green lawn was a great lake fully a mile from shore to shore, the
waters of which were exquisitely blue and sparkling, with little
wavelets breaking its smooth surface where the breezes touched it. In
the center of this lake appeared a lovely island, not of great extent
but almost entirely covered by a huge round building with glass walls
and a high glass dome which glittered brilliantly in the sunshine.
Between the glass building and the edge of the island was no grass,
flowers or shrubbery, but only an expanse of highly polished white
marble. There were no boats on either shore and no signs of life could
be seen anywhere on the island.

"Well," said Dorothy, gazing wistfully at the island, "we've found the
Lake of the Skeezers and their Magic Isle. I guess the Skeezers are in
that big glass palace, but we can't get at 'em."




Chapter Eight

Queen Coo-ee-oh


Princess Ozma considered the situation gravely. Then she tied her
handkerchief to her wand and, standing at the water's edge, waved the
handkerchief like a flag, as a signal. For a time they could observe no
response.

"I don't see what good that will do," said Dorothy. "Even if the
Skeezers are on that island and see us, and know we're friends, they
haven't any boats to come and get us."

But the Skeezers didn't need boats, as the girls soon discovered. For
on a sudden an opening appeared at the base of the palace and from the
opening came a slender shaft of steel, reaching out slowly but steadily
across the water in the direction of the place where they stood. To the
girls this steel arrangement looked like a triangle, with the base
nearest the water. It came toward them in the form of an arch,
stretching out from the palace wall until its end reached the bank and
rested there, while the other end still remained on the island.

Then they saw that it was a bridge, consisting of a steel footway just
broad enough to walk on, and two slender guide rails, one on either
side, which were connected with the footway by steel bars. The bridge
looked rather frail and Dorothy feared it would not bear their weight,
but Ozma at once called, "Come on!" and started to walk across, holding
fast to the rail on either side. So Dorothy summoned her courage and
followed after. Before Ozma had taken three steps she halted and so
forced Dorothy to halt, for the bridge was again moving and returning
to the island.

"We need not walk after all," said Ozma. So they stood still in their
places and let the steel bridge draw them onward. Indeed, the bridge
drew them well into the glass-domed building which covered the island,
and soon they found themselves standing in a marble room where two
handsomely dressed young men stood on a platform to receive them.

Ozma at once stepped from the end of the bridge to the marble platform,
followed by Dorothy, and then the bridge disappeared with a slight
clang of steel and a marble slab covered the opening from which it had
emerged.

The two young men bowed profoundly to Ozma, and one of them said:

"Queen Coo-ee-oh bids you welcome, O Strangers. Her Majesty is waiting
to receive you in her palace."

"Lead on," replied Ozma with dignity.

But instead of "leading on," the platform of marble began to rise,
carrying them upward through a square hole above which just fitted it.
A moment later they found themselves within the great glass dome that
covered almost all of the island.

Within this dome was a little village, with houses, streets, gardens
and parks. The houses were of colored marbles, prettily designed, with
many stained-glass windows, and the streets and gardens seemed well
cared for. Exactly under the center of the lofty dome was a small park
filled with brilliant flowers, with an elaborate fountain, and facing
this park stood a building larger and more imposing than the others.
Toward this building the young men escorted Ozma and Dorothy.

On the streets and in the doorways or open windows of the houses were
men, women and children, all richly dressed. These were much like other
people in different parts of the Land of Oz, except that instead of
seeming merry and contented they all wore expressions of much solemnity
or of nervous irritation. They had beautiful homes, splendid clothes,
and ample food, but Dorothy at once decided something was wrong with
their lives and that they were not happy. She said nothing, however,
but looked curiously at the Skeezers.

At the entrance of the palace Ozma and Dorothy were met by two other
young men, in uniform and armed with queer weapons that seemed about
halfway between pistols and guns, but were like neither. Their
conductors bowed and left them, and the two in uniforms led the girls
into the palace.

In a beautiful throne room, surrounded by a dozen or more young men and
women, sat the Queen of the Skeezers, Coo-ee-oh. She was a girl who
looked older than Ozma or Dorothy--fifteen or sixteen, at least--and
although she was elaborately dressed as if she were going to a ball she
was too thin and plain of feature to be pretty. But evidently Queen
Coo-ee-oh did not realize this fact, for her air and manner betrayed
her as proud and haughty and with a high regard for her own importance.
Dorothy at once decided she was "snippy" and that she would not like
Queen Coo-ee-oh as a companion.

The Queen's hair was as black as her skin was white and her eyes were
black, too. The eyes, as she calmly examined Ozma and Dorothy, had a
suspicious and unfriendly look in them, but she said quietly:

"I know who you are, for I have consulted my Magic Oracle, which told
me that one calls herself Princess Ozma, the Ruler of all the Land of
Oz, and the other is Princess Dorothy of Oz, who came from a country
called Kansas. I know nothing of the Land of Oz, and I know nothing of
Kansas."

"Why, this is the Land of Oz!" cried Dorothy. "It's a part of the Land
of Oz, anyhow, whether you know it or not."

"Oh, in-deed!" answered Queen Coo-ee-oh, scornfully. "I suppose you
will claim next that this Princess Ozma, ruling the Land of Oz, rules
me!"

"Of course," returned Dorothy. "There's no doubt of it."

The Queen turned to Ozma.

"Do you dare make such a claim?" she asked.

By this time Ozma had made up her mind as to the character of this
haughty and disdainful creature, whose self-pride evidently led her to
believe herself superior to all others.

"I did not come here to quarrel with your Majesty," said the girl Ruler
of Oz, quietly. "What and who I am is well established, and my
authority comes from the Fairy Queen Lurline, of whose band I was a
member when Lurline made all Oz a Fairyland. There are several
countries and several different peoples in this broad land, each of
which has its separate rulers, Kings, Emperors and Queens. But all
these render obedience to my laws and acknowledge me as the supreme
Ruler."

"If other Kings and Queens are fools that does not interest me in the
least," replied Coo-ee-oh, disdainfully. "In the Land of the Skeezers I
alone am supreme. You are impudent to think I would defer to you--or to
anyone else."

"Let us not speak of this now, please," answered Ozma. "Your island is
in danger, for a powerful foe is preparing to destroy it."

"Pah! The Flatheads. I do not fear them."

"Their Supreme Dictator is a Sorcerer."

"My magic is greater than his. Let the Flatheads come! They will never
return to their barren mountain-top. I will see to that."

Ozma did not like this attitude, for it meant that the Skeezers were
eager to fight the Flatheads, and Ozma's object in coming here was to
prevent fighting and induce the two quarrelsome neighbors to make
peace. She was also greatly disappointed in Coo-ee-oh, for the reports
of Su-dic had led her to imagine the Queen more just and honorable than
were the Flatheads. Indeed Ozma reflected that the girl might be better
at heart than her self-pride and overbearing manner indicated, and in
any event it would be wise not to antagonize her but to try to win her
friendship.

"I do not like wars, your Majesty," said Ozma. "In the Emerald City,
where I rule thousands of people, and in the countries near to the
Emerald City, where thousands more acknowledge my rule, there is no
army at all, because there is no quarreling and no need to fight. If
differences arise between my people, they come to me and I judge the
cases and award justice to all. So, when I learned there might be war
between two faraway people of Oz, I came here to settle the dispute and
adjust the quarrel."

"No one asked you to come," declared Queen Coo-ee-oh. "It is my
business to settle this dispute, not yours. You say my island is a part
of the Land of Oz, which you rule, but that is all nonsense, for I've
never heard of the Land of Oz, nor of you. You say you are a fairy, and
that fairies gave you command over me. I don't believe it! What I do
believe is that you are an impostor and have come here to stir up
trouble among my people, who are already becoming difficult to manage.
You two girls may even be spies of the vile Flatheads, for all I know,
and may be trying to trick me. But understand this," she added, proudly
rising from her jeweled throne to confront them, "I have magic powers
greater than any fairy possesses, and greater than any Flathead
possesses. I am a Krumbic Witch--the only Krumbic Witch in the
world--and I fear the magic of no other creature that exists! You say
you rule thousands. I rule one hundred and one Skeezers. But every one
of them trembles at my word. Now that Ozma of Oz and Princess Dorothy
are here, I shall rule one hundred and three subjects, for you also
shall bow before my power. More than that, in ruling you I also rule
the thousands you say you rule."

Dorothy was very indignant at this speech.

"I've got a pink kitten that sometimes talks like that," she said, "but
after I give her a good whipping she doesn't think she's so high and
mighty after all. If you only knew who Ozma is you'd be scared to death
to talk to her like that!"

Queen Coo-ee-oh gave the girl a supercilious look. Then she turned
again to Ozma.

"I happen to know," said she, "that the Flatheads intend to attack us
tomorrow, but we are ready for them. Until the battle is over, I shall
keep you two strangers prisoners on my island, from which there is no
chance for you to escape."

She turned and looked around the band of courtiers who stood silently
around her throne.

"Lady Aurex," she continued, singling out one of the young women, "take
these children to your house and care for them, giving them food and
lodging. You may allow them to wander anywhere under the Great Dome,
for they are harmless. After I have attended to the Flatheads I will
consider what next to do with these foolish girls."

She resumed her seat and the Lady Aurex bowed low and said in a humble
manner:

"I obey your Majesty's commands." Then to Ozma and Dorothy she added,
"Follow me," and turned to leave the throne room.

Dorothy looked to see what Ozma would do. To her surprise and a little
to her disappointment Ozma turned and followed Lady Aurex. So Dorothy
trailed after them, but not without giving a parting, haughty look
toward Queen Coo-ee-oh, who had her face turned the other way and did
not see the disapproving look.




Chapter Nine

Lady Aurex


Lady Aurex led Ozma and Dorothy along a street to a pretty marble house
near to one edge of the great glass dome that covered the village. She
did not speak to the girls until she had ushered them into a pleasant
room, comfortably furnished, nor did any of the solemn people they met
on the street venture to speak.

When they were seated Lady Aurex asked if they were hungry, and finding
they were summoned a maid and ordered food to be brought.

This Lady Aurex looked to be about twenty years old, although in the
Land of Oz where people have never changed in appearance since the
fairies made it a fairyland--where no one grows old or dies--it is
always difficult to say how many years anyone has lived. She had a
pleasant, attractive face, even though it was solemn and sad as the
faces of all Skeezers seemed to be, and her costume was rich and
elaborate, as became a lady in waiting upon the Queen.

Ozma had observed Lady Aurex closely and now asked her in a gentle tone:

"Do you, also, believe me to be an impostor?"

"I dare not say," replied Lady Aurex in a low tone.

"Why are you afraid to speak freely?" inquired Ozma.

"The Queen punishes us if we make remarks that she does not like."

"Are we not alone then, in this house?"

"The Queen can hear everything that is spoken on this island--even the
slightest whisper," declared Lady Aurex. "She is a wonderful witch, as
she has told you, and it is folly to criticise her or disobey her
commands."

Ozma looked into her eyes and saw that she would like to say more if
she dared. So she drew from her bosom her silver wand, and having
muttered a magic phrase in a strange tongue, she left the room and
walked slowly around the outside of the house, making a complete circle
and waving her wand in mystic curves as she walked. Lady Aurex watched
her curiously and, when Ozma had again entered the room and seated
herself, she asked:

"What have you done?"

"I've enchanted this house in such a manner that Queen Coo-ee-oh, with
all her witchcraft, cannot hear one word we speak within the magic
circle I have made," replied Ozma. "We may now speak freely and as
loudly as we wish, without fear of the Queen's anger."

Lady Aurex brightened at this.

"Can I trust you?" she asked.

"Ev'rybody trusts Ozma," exclaimed Dorothy. "She is true and honest,
and your wicked Queen will be sorry she insulted the powerful Ruler of
all the Land of Oz."

"The Queen does not know me yet," said Ozma, "but I want you to know
me, Lady Aurex, and I want you to tell me why you, and all the
Skeezers, are unhappy. Do not fear Coo-ee-oh's anger, for she cannot
hear a word we say, I assure you."

Lady Aurex was thoughtful a moment; then she said: "I shall trust you,
Princess Ozma, for I believe you are what you say you are--our supreme
Ruler. If you knew the dreadful punishments our Queen inflicts upon us,
you would not wonder we are so unhappy. The Skeezers are not bad
people; they do not care to quarrel and fight, even with their enemies
the Flatheads; but they are so cowed and fearful of Coo-ee-oh that they
obey her slightest word, rather than suffer her anger."

"Hasn't she any heart, then?" asked Dorothy.

"She never displays mercy. She loves no one but herself," asserted Lady
Aurex, but she trembled as she said it, as if afraid even yet of her
terrible Queen.

"That's pretty bad," said Dorothy, shaking her head gravely. "I see
you've a lot to do here, Ozma, in this forsaken corner of the Land of
Oz. First place, you've got to take the magic away from Queen
Coo-ee-oh, and from that awful Su-dic, too. My idea is that neither of
them is fit to rule anybody, 'cause they're cruel and hateful. So
you'll have to give the Skeezers and Flatheads new rulers and teach all
their people that they're part of the Land of Oz and must obey, above
all, the lawful Ruler, Ozma of Oz. Then, when you've done that, we can
go back home again."

Ozma smiled at her little friend's earnest counsel, but Lady Aurex said
in an anxious tone:

"I am surprised that you suggest these reforms while you are yet
prisoners on this island and in Coo-ee-oh's power. That these things
should be done, there is no doubt, but just now a dreadful war is
likely to break out, and frightful things may happen to us all.  Our
Queen has such conceit that she thinks she can overcome the Su-dic and
his people, but it is said Su-dic's magic is very powerful, although
not as great as that possessed by his wife Rora, before Coo-ee-oh
transformed her into a Golden Pig."

"I don't blame her very much for doing that," remarked Dorothy, "for
the Flatheads were wicked to try to catch your beautiful fish and the
Witch Rora wanted to poison all the fishes in the lake."

"Do you know the reason?" asked the Lady Aurex.

"I don't s'pose there was any reason, 'cept just wickedness," replied
Dorothy.

"Tell us the reason," said Ozma earnestly.

"Well, your Majesty, once--a long time ago--the Flatheads and the
Skeezers were friendly. They visited our island and we visited their
mountain, and everything was pleasant between the two peoples. At that
time the Flatheads were ruled by three Adepts in Sorcery, beautiful
girls who were not Flatheads, but had wandered to the Flat Mountain and
made their home there. These three Adepts used their magic only for
good, and the mountain people gladly made them their rulers. They
taught the Flatheads how to use their canned brains and how to work
metals into clothing that would never wear out, and many other things
that added to their happiness and content.

"Coo-ee-oh was our Queen then, as now, but she knew no magic and so had
nothing to be proud of. But the three Adepts were very kind to
Coo-ee-oh. They built for us this wonderful dome of glass and our
houses of marble and taught us to make beautiful clothing and many
other things. Coo-ee-oh pretended to be very grateful for these favors,
but it seems that all the time she was jealous of the three Adepts and
secretly tried to discover their arts of magic. In this she was more
clever than anyone suspected. She invited the three Adepts to a banquet
one day, and while they were feasting Coo-ee-oh stole their charms and
magical instruments and transformed them into three fishes--a gold
fish, a silver fish and a bronze fish. While the poor fishes were
gasping and flopping helplessly on the floor of the banquet room one of
them said reproachfully: 'You will be punished for this, Coo-ee-oh, for
if one of us dies or is destroyed, you will become shrivelled and
helpless, and all your stolen magic will depart from you.' Frightened
by this threat, Coo-ee-oh at once caught up the three fish and ran with
them to the shore of the lake, where she cast them into the water. This
revived the three Adepts and they swam away and disappeared.

"I, myself, witnessed this shocking scene," continued Lady Aurex, "and
so did many other Skeezers. The news was carried to the Flatheads, who
then turned from friends to enemies. The Su-dic and his wife Rora were
the only ones on the mountain who were glad the three Adepts had been
lost to them, and they at once became Rulers of the Flatheads and stole
their canned brains from others to make themselves the more powerful.
Some of the Adepts' magic tools had been left on the mountain, and
these Rora seized and by the use of them she became a witch.

"The result of Coo-ee-oh's treachery was to make both the Skeezers and
the Flatheads miserable instead of happy. Not only were the Su-dic and
his wife cruel to their people, but our Queen at once became proud and
arrogant and treated us very unkindly. All the Skeezers knew she had
stolen her magic powers and so she hated us and made us humble
ourselves before her and obey her slightest word. If we disobeyed, or
did not please her, or if we talked about her when we were in our own
homes she would have us dragged to the whipping post in her palace and
lashed with knotted cords. That is why we fear her so greatly."

This story filled Ozma's heart with sorrow and Dorothy's heart with
indignation.

"I now understand," said Ozma, "why the fishes in the lake have brought
about war between the Skeezers and the Flatheads."

"Yes," Lady Aurex answered, "now that you know the story it is easy to
understand. The Su-dic and his wife came to our lake hoping to catch
the silver fish, or gold fish, or bronze fish--any one of them would
do--and by destroying it deprive Coo-ee-oh of her magic. Then they
could easily conquer her. Also they had another reason for wanting to
catch the fish--they feared that in some way the three Adepts might
regain their proper forms and then they would be sure to return to the
mountain and punish Rora and the Su-dic. That was why Rora finally
tried to poison all the fishes in the lake, at the time Coo-ee-oh
transformed her into a Golden Pig. Of course this attempt to destroy
the fishes frightened the Queen, for her safety lies in keeping the
three fishes alive."

"I s'pose Coo-ee-oh will fight the Flatheads with all her might,"
observed Dorothy.

"And with all her magic," added Ozma, thoughtfully.

"I do not see how the Flatheads can get to this island to hurt us,"
said Lady Aurex.

"They have bows and arrows, and I guess they mean to shoot the arrows
at your big dome, and break all the glass in it," suggested Dorothy.

But Lady Aurex shook her head with a smile.

"They cannot do that," she replied.

"Why not?"

"I dare not tell you why, but if the Flatheads come to-morrow morning
you will yourselves see the reason."

"I do not think they will attempt to harm the island," Ozma declared.
"I believe they will first attempt to destroy the fishes, by poison or
some other means. If they succeed in that, the conquest of the island
will not be difficult."

"They have no boats," said Lady Aurex, "and Coo-ee-oh, who has long
expected this war, has been preparing for it in many astonishing ways.
I almost wish the Flatheads would conquer us, for then we would be free
from our dreadful Queen; but I do not wish to see the three transformed
fishes destroyed, for in them lies our only hope of future happiness."

"Ozma will take care of you, whatever happens," Dorothy assured her.
But the Lady Aurex, not knowing the extent of Ozma's power--which was,
in fact, not so great as Dorothy imagined--could not take much comfort
in this promise.

It was evident there would be exciting times on the morrow, if the
Flatheads really attacked the Skeezers of the Magic Isle.




Chapter Ten

Under Water


When night fell all the interior of the Great Dome, streets and houses,
became lighted with brilliant incandescent lamps, which rendered it
bright as day. Dorothy thought the island must look beautiful by night
from the outer shore of the lake. There was revelry and feasting in the
Queen's palace, and the music of the royal band could be plainly heard
in Lady Aurex's house, where Ozma and Dorothy remained with their
hostess and keeper. They were prisoners, but treated with much
consideration.

Lady Aurex gave them a nice supper and when they wished to retire
showed them to a pretty room with comfortable beds and wished them a
good night and pleasant dreams.

"What do you think of all this, Ozma?" Dorothy anxiously inquired when
they were alone.

"I am glad we came," was the reply, "for although there may be mischief
done to-morrow, it was necessary I should know about these people,
whose leaders are wild and lawless and oppress their subjects with
injustice and cruelties. My task, therefore, is to liberate the
Skeezers and the Flatheads and secure for them freedom and happiness. I
have no doubt I can accomplish this in time."

"Just now, though, we're in a bad fix," asserted Dorothy. "If Queen
Coo-ee-oh conquers to-morrow, she won't be nice to us, and if the
Su-dic conquers, he'll be worse."

"Do not worry, dear," said Ozma, "I do not think we are in danger,
whatever happens, and the result of our adventure is sure to be good."

Dorothy was not worrying, especially. She had confidence in her friend,
the fairy Princess of Oz, and she enjoyed the excitement of the events
in which she was taking part. So she crept into bed and fell asleep as
easily as if she had been in her own cosy room in Ozma's palace.

A sort of grating, grinding sound awakened her. The whole island seemed
to tremble and sway, as it might do in an earthquake. Dorothy sat up in
bed, rubbing her eyes to get the sleep out of them, and then found it
was daybreak.

Ozma was hurriedly dressing herself.

"What is it?" asked Dorothy, jumping out of bed.

"I'm not sure," answered Ozma "but it feels as if the island is
sinking."

As soon as possible they finished dressing, while the creaking and
swaying continued. Then they rushed into the living room of the house
and found Lady Aurex, fully dressed, awaiting them.

"Do not be alarmed," said their hostess. "Coo-ee-oh has decided to
submerge the island, that is all. But it proves the Flatheads are
coming to attack us."

"What do you mean by sub-sub-merging the island?" asked Dorothy.

"Come here and see," was the reply.

Lady Aurex led them to a window which faced the side of the great dome
which covered all the village, and they could see that the island was
indeed sinking, for the water of the lake was already half way up the
side of the dome. Through the glass could be seen swimming fishes, and
tall stalks of swaying seaweeds, for the water was clear as crystal and
through it they could distinguish even the farther shore of the lake.

"The Flatheads are not here yet," said Lady Aurex. "They will come
soon, but not until all of this dome is under the surface of the water."

"Won't the dome leak?" Dorothy inquired anxiously.

"No, indeed."

"Was the island ever sub-sub-sunk before?"

"Oh, yes; on several occasions. But Coo-ee-oh doesn't care to do that
often, for it requires a lot of hard work to operate the machinery. The
dome was built so that the island could disappear. I think," she
continued, "that our Queen fears the Flatheads will attack the island
and try to break the glass of the dome."

"Well, if we're under water, they can't fight us, and we can't fight
them," asserted Dorothy.

"They could kill the fishes, however," said Ozma gravely.

"We have ways to fight, also, even though our island is under water,"
claimed Lady Aurex. "I cannot tell you all our secrets, but this island
is full of surprises. Also our Queen's magic is astonishing."

"Did she steal it all from the three Adepts in Sorcery that are now
fishes?"

"She stole the knowledge and the magic tools, but she has used them as
the three Adepts never would have done."

By this time the top of the dome was quite under water and suddenly the
island stopped sinking and became stationary.

"See!" cried Lady Aurex, pointing to the shore. "The Flatheads have
come."

On the bank, which was now far above their heads, a crowd of dark
figures could be seen.

"Now let us see what Coo-ee-oh will do to oppose them," continued Lady
Aurex, in a voice that betrayed her excitement.

   *     *     *     *     *

The Flatheads, pushing their way through the line of palm trees, had
reached the shore of the lake just as the top of the island's dome
disappeared beneath the surface. The water now flowed from shore to
shore, but through the clear water the dome was still visible and the
houses of the Skeezers could be dimly seen through the panes of glass.

"Good!" exclaimed the Su-dic, who had armed all his followers and had
brought with him two copper vessels, which he carefully set down upon
the ground beside him. "If Coo-ee-oh wants to hide instead of fighting
our job will be easy, for in one of these copper vessels I have enough
poison to kill every fish in the lake."

"Kill them, then, while we have time, and then we can go home again,"
advised one of the chief officers.

"Not yet," objected the Su-dic. "The Queen of the Skeezers has defied
me, and I want to get her into my power, as well as to destroy her
magic. She transformed my poor wife into a Golden Pig, and I must have
revenge for that, whatever else we do."

"Look out!" suddenly exclaimed the officers, pointing into the lake;
"something's going to happen."

From the submerged dome a door opened and something black shot swiftly
out into the water. The door instantly closed behind it and the dark
object cleaved its way through the water, without rising to the
surface, directly toward the place where the Flatheads were standing.

"What is that?" Dorothy asked the Lady Aurex.

"That is one of the Queen's submarines," was the reply. "It is all
enclosed, and can move under water. Coo-ee-oh has several of these
boats which are kept in little rooms in the basement under our village.
When the island is submerged, the Queen uses these boats to reach the
shore, and I believe she now intends to fight the Flatheads with them."

The Su-dic and his people knew nothing of Coo-ee-oh's submarines, so
they watched with surprise as the under-water boat approached them.
When it was quite near the shore it rose to the surface and the top
parted and fell back, disclosing a boat full of armed Skeezers. At the
head was the Queen, standing up in the bow and holding in one hand a
coil of magic rope that gleamed like silver.

The boat halted and Coo-ee-oh drew back her arm to throw the silver
rope toward the Su-dic, who was now but a few feet from her. But the
wily Flathead leader quickly realized his danger and before the Queen
could throw the rope he caught up one of the copper vessels and dashed
its contents full in her face!




Chapter Eleven

The Conquest of the Skeezers


Queen Coo-ee-oh dropped the rope, tottered and fell headlong into the
water, sinking beneath the surface, while the Skeezers in the submarine
assist her and only stared at the ripples in the water where she had
disappeared. A moment later there arose to the surface a beautiful
White Swan. This Swan was of large size, very gracefully formed, and
scattered all over its white feathers were tiny diamonds, so thickly
placed that as the rays of the morning sun fell upon them the entire
body of the Swan glistened like one brilliant diamond. The head of the
Diamond Swan had a bill of polished gold and its eyes were two
sparkling amethysts.

"Hooray!" cried the Su-dic, dancing up and down with wicked glee. "My
poor wife, Rora, is avenged at last. You made her a Golden Pig,
Coo-ee-oh, and now I have made you a Diamond Swan. Float on your lake
forever, if you like, for your web feet can do no more magic and you
are as powerless as the Pig you made of my wife!

"Villain! Scoundrel!" croaked the Diamond Swan. "You will be punished
for this. Oh, what a fool I was to let you enchant me!

"A fool you were, and a fool you are!" laughed the Su-dic, dancing
madly in his delight. And then he carelessly tipped over the other
copper vessel with his heel and its contents spilled on the sands and
were lost to the last drop.

The Su-dic stopped short and looked at the overturned vessel with a
rueful countenance.

"That's too bad--too bad!" he exclaimed sorrowfully. "I've lost all the
poison I had to kill the fishes with, and I can't make any more because
only my wife knew the secret of it, and she is now a foolish Pig and
has forgotten all her magic."

"Very well," said the Diamond Swan scornfully, as she floated upon the
water and swam gracefully here and there. "I'm glad to see you are
foiled. Your punishment is just beginning, for although you have
enchanted me and taken away my powers of sorcery you have still the
three magic fishes to deal with, and they'll destroy you in time, mark
my words."

The Su-dic stared at the Swan a moment. Then he yelled to his men:

"Shoot her! Shoot the saucy bird!"

They let fly some arrows at the Diamond Swan, but she dove under the
water and the missiles fell harmless. When Coo-ce-oh rose to the
surface she was far from the shore and she swiftly swam across the lake
to where no arrows or spears could reach her.

The Su-dic rubbed his chin and thought what to do next. Near by floated
the submarine in which the Queen had come, but the Skeezers who were in
it were puzzled what to do with themselves. Perhaps they were not sorry
their cruel mistress had been transformed into a Diamond Swan, but the
transformation had left them quite helpless. The under-water boat was
not operated by machinery, but by certain mystic words uttered by
Coo-ee-oh. They didn't know how to submerge it, or how to make the
water-tight shield cover them again, or how to make the boat go back to
the castle, or make it enter the little basement room where it was
usually kept. As a matter of fact, they were now shut out of their
village under the Great Dome and could not get back again. So one of
the men called to the Supreme Dictator of the Flatheads, saying:

"Please make us prisoners and take us to your mountain, and feed and
keep us, for we have nowhere to go."

Then the Su-dic laughed and answered:

"Not so. I can't be bothered by caring for a lot of stupid Skeezers.
Stay where you are, or go wherever you please, so long as you keep away
from our mountain." He turned to his men and added: "We have conquered
Queen Coo-ee-oh and made her a helpless swan. The Skeezers are under
water and may stay there. So, having won the war, let us go home again
and make merry and feast, having after many years proved the Flatheads
to be greater and more powerful than the Skeezers."

So the Flatheads marched away and passed through the row of palms and
went back to their mountain, where the Su-dic and a few of his officers
feasted and all the others were forced to wait on them.

"I'm sorry we couldn't have roast pig," said the Su-dic, "but as the
only pig we have is made of gold, we can't eat her. Also the Golden Pig
happens to be my wife, and even were she not gold I am sure she would
be too tough to eat."




Chapter Twelve

The Diamond Swan


When the Flatheads had gone away the Diamond Swan swam back to the boat
and one of the young Skeezers named Ervic said to her eagerly:

"How can we get back to the island, your Majesty?"

"Am I not beautiful?" asked Coo-ee-oh, arching her neck gracefully and
spreading her diamond-sprinkled wings. "I can see my reflection in the
water, and I'm sure there is no bird nor beast, nor human as
magnificent as I am!"

"How shall we get back to the island, your Majesty?" pleaded Ervic.

"When my fame spreads throughout the land, people will travel from all
parts of this lake to look upon my loveliness," said Coo-ee-oh, shaking
her feathers to make the diamonds glitter more brilliantly.

"But, your Majesty, we must go home and we do not know how to get
there," Ervic persisted.

"My eyes," remarked the Diamond Swan, "are wonderfully blue and bright
and will charm all beholders."

"Tell us how to make the boat go--how to get back into the island,"
begged Ervic and the others cried just as earnestly: "Tell us,
Coo-ee-oh; tell us!"

"I don't know," replied the Queen in a careless tone.

"You are a magic-worker, a sorceress, a witch!"

"I was, of course, when I was a girl," she said, bending her head over
the clear water to catch her reflection in it; "but now I've forgotten
all such foolish things as magic. Swans are lovelier than girls,
especially when they're sprinkled with diamonds. Don't you think so?"
And she gracefully swam away, without seeming to care whether they
answered or not.

Ervic and his companions were in despair. They saw plainly that
Coo-ee-oh could not or would not help them. The former Queen had no
further thought for her island, her people, or her wonderful magic; she
was only intent on admiring her own beauty.

"Truly," said Ervic, in a gloomy voice, "the Flatheads have conquered
us!"

   *     *     *     *     *

Some of these events had been witnessed by Ozma and Dorothy and Lady
Aurex, who had left the house and gone close to the glass of the dome,
in order to see what was going on. Many of the Skeezers had also
crowded against the dome, wondering what would happen next. Although
their vision was to an extent blurred by the water and the necessity of
looking upward at an angle, they had observed the main points of the
drama enacted above. They saw Queen Coo-ee-oh's submarine come to the
surface and open; they saw the Queen standing erect to throw her magic
rope; they saw her sudden transformation into a Diamond Swan, and a cry
of amazement went up from the Skeezers inside the dome.

"Good!" exclaimed Dorothy. "I hate that old Su-dic, but I'm glad
Coo-ee-oh is punished."

"This is a dreadful misfortune!" cried Lady Aurex, pressing her hands
upon her heart.

"Yes," agreed Ozma, nodding her head thoughtfully; "Coo-ee-oh's
misfortune will prove a terrible blow to her people."

"What do you mean by that?" asked Dorothy in surprise. "Seems to me the
Skeezers are in luck to lose their cruel Queen."

"If that were all you would be right," responded Lady Aurex; "and if
the island were above water it would not be so serious. But here we all
are, at the bottom of the lake, and fast prisoners in this dome."

"Can't you raise the island?" inquired Dorothy.

"No. Only Coo-ee-oh knew how to do that," was the answer.

"We can try," insisted Dorothy. "If it can be made to go down, it can
be made to come up. The machinery is still here, I suppose.

"Yes; but the machinery works by magic, and Coo-ee-oh would never share
her secret power with any one of us."

Dorothy's face grew grave; but she was thinking.

"Ozma knows a lot of magic," she said.

"But not that kind of magic," Ozma replied.

"Can't you learn how, by looking at the machinery?"

"I'm afraid not, my dear. It isn't fairy magic at all; it is
witchcraft."

"Well," said Dorothy, turning to Lady Aurex, "you say there are other
sub-sub-sinking boats. We can get in one of those, and shoot out to the
top of the water, like Coo-ee-oh did, and so escape. And then we can
help to rescue all the Skeezers down here."

"No one knows how to work the under-water boats but the Queen,"
declared Lady Aurex.

"Isn't there any door or window in this dome that we could open?"

"No; and, if there were, the water would rush in to flood the dome, and
we could not get out."

"The Skeezers," said Ozma, "could not drown; they only get wet and
soggy and in that condition they would be very uncomfortable and
unhappy. But you are a mortal girl, Dorothy, and if your Magic Belt
protected you from death you would have to lie forever at the bottom of
the lake."

"No, I'd rather die quickly," asserted the little girl. "But there are
doors in the basement that open--to let out the bridges and the
boats--and that would not flood the dome, you know."

"Those doors open by a magic word, and only Coo-ee-oh knows the word
that must be uttered," said Lady Aurex.

"Dear me!" exclaimed Dorothy, "that dreadful Queen's witchcraft upsets
all my plans to escape. I guess I'll give it up, Ozma, and let you save
us."

Ozma smiled, but her smile was not so cheerful as usual. The Princess
of Oz found herself confronted with a serious problem, and although she
had no thought of despairing she realized that the Skeezers and their
island, as well as Dorothy and herself, were in grave trouble and that
unless she could find a means to save them they would be lost to the
Land of Oz for all future time.

"In such a dilemma," said she, musingly, "nothing is gained by haste.
Careful thought may aid us, and so may the course of events. The
unexpected is always likely to happen, and cheerful patience is better
than reckless action."

"All right," returned Dorothy; "take your time, Ozma; there's no hurry.
How about some breakfast, Lady Aurex?"

Their hostess led them back to the house, where she ordered her
trembling servants to prepare and serve breakfast. All the Skeezers
were frightened and anxious over the transformation of their Queen into
a swan. Coo-ee-oh was feared and hated, but they had depended on her
magic to conquer the Flatheads and she was the only one who could raise
their island to the surface of the lake again.

Before breakfast was over several of the leading Skeezers came to Aurex
to ask her advice and to question Princess Ozma, of whom they knew
nothing except that she claimed to be a fairy and the Ruler of all the
land, including the Lake of the Skeezers.

"If what you told Queen Coo-ee-oh was the truth," they said to her,
"you are our lawful mistress, and we may depend on you to get us out of
our difficulties."

"I will try to do that," Ozma graciously assured them, "but you must
remember that the powers of fairies are granted them to bring comfort
and happiness to all who appeal to them. On the contrary, such magic as
Coo-ee-oh knew and practiced is unlawful witchcraft and her arts are
such as no fairy would condescend to use. However, it is sometimes
necessary to consider evil in order to accomplish good, and perhaps by
studying Coo-ee-oh's tools and charms of witchcraft I may be able to
save us. Do you promise to accept me as your Ruler and to obey my
commands?"

They promised willingly.

"Then," continued Ozma, "I will go to Coo-ee-oh's palace and take
possession of it. Perhaps what I find there will be of use to me. In
the meantime tell all the Skeezers to fear nothing, but have patience.
Let them return to their homes and perform their daily tasks as usual.
Coo-ee-oh's loss may not prove a misfortune, but rather a blessing."

This speech cheered the Skeezers amazingly. Really, they had no one now
to depend upon but Ozma, and in spite of their dangerous position their
hearts were lightened by the transformation and absence of their cruel
Queen.

They got out their brass band and a grand procession escorted Ozma and
Dorothy to the palace, where all of Coo-ee-oh's former servants were
eager to wait upon them. Ozma invited Lady Aurex to stay at the palace
also, for she knew all about the Skeezers and their island and had also
been a favorite of the former Queen, so her advice and information were
sure to prove valuable.

Ozma was somewhat disappointed in what she found in the palace. One
room of Coo-ee-oh's private suite was entirely devoted to the practice
of witchcraft, and here were countless queer instruments and jars of
ointments and bottles of potions labeled with queer names, and strange
machines that Ozma could not guess the use of, and pickled toads and
snails and lizards, and a shelf of books that were written in blood,
but in a language which the Ruler of Oz did not know.

"I do not see," said Ozma to Dorothy, who accompanied her in her
search, "how Coo-ee-oh knew the use of the magic tools she stole from
the three Adept Witches. Moreover, from all reports these Adepts
practiced only good witchcraft, such as would be helpful to their
people, while Coo-ee-oh performed only evil."

"Perhaps she turned the good things to evil uses?" suggested Dorothy.

"Yes, and with the knowledge she gained Coo-ee-oh doubtless invented
many evil things quite unknown to the good Adepts, who are now fishes,"
added Ozma. "It is unfortunate for us that the Queen kept her secrets
so closely guarded, for no one but herself could use any of these
strange things gathered in this room."

"Couldn't we capture the Diamond Swan and make her tell the secrets?"
asked Dorothy.

"No; even were we able to capture her, Coo-ee-oh now has forgotten all
the magic she ever knew. But until we ourselves escape from this dome
we could not capture the Swan, and were we to escape we would have no
use for Coo-ee-oh's magic."

"That's a fact," admitted Dorothy. "But--say, Ozma, here's a good idea!
Couldn't we capture the three fishes--the gold and silver and bronze
ones, and couldn't you transform 'em back to their own shapes, and then
couldn't the three Adepts get us out of here?"

"You are not very practical, Dorothy dear. It would be as hard for us
to capture the three fishes, from among all the other fishes in the
lake, as to capture the Swan."

"But if we could, it would be more help to us," persisted the little
girl.

"That is true," answered Ozma, smiling at her friend's eagerness. "You
find a way to catch the fish, and I'll promise when they are caught to
restore them to their proper forms."

"I know you think I can't do it," replied Dorothy, "but I'm going to
try."

She left the palace and went to a place where she could look through a
clear pane of the glass dome into the surrounding water. Immediately
she became interested in the queer sights that met her view.

The Lake of the Skeezers was inhabited by fishes of many kinds and many
sizes. The water was so transparent that the girl could see for a long
distance and the fishes came so close to the glass of the dome that
sometimes they actually touched it. On the white sands at the bottom of
the lake were star-fish, lobsters, crabs and many shell fish of strange
shapes and with shells of gorgeous hues. The water foliage was of
brilliant colors and to Dorothy it resembled a splendid garden.

But the fishes were the most interesting of all. Some were big and
lazy, floating slowly along or lying at rest with just their fins
waving. Many with big round eyes looked full at the girl as she watched
them and Dorothy wondered if they could hear her through the glass if
she spoke to them. In Oz, where all the animals and birds can talk,
many fishes are able to talk also, but usually they are more stupid
than birds and animals because they think slowly and haven't much to
talk about.

In the Lake of the Skeezers the fish of smaller size were more active
than the big ones and darted quickly in and out among the swaying
weeds, as if they had important business and were in a hurry. It was
among the smaller varieties that Dorothy hoped to spy the gold and
silver and bronze fishes. She had an idea the three would keep
together, being companions now as they were in their natural forms, but
such a multitude of fishes constantly passed, the scene shifting every
moment, that she was not sure she would notice them even if they
appeared in view. Her eyes couldn't look in all directions and the
fishes she sought might be on the other side of the dome, or far away
in the lake.

"P'raps, because they were afraid of Coo-ee-oh, they've hid themselves
somewhere, and don't know their enemy has been transformed," she
reflected.

She watched the fishes for a long time, until she became hungry and
went back to the palace for lunch. But she was not discouraged.

"Anything new, Ozma?" she asked.

"No, dear. Did you discover the three fishes?"

"Not yet. But there isn't anything better for me to do, Ozma, so I
guess I'll go back and watch again."




Chapter Thirteen

The Alarm Bell


Glinda, the Good, in her palace in the Quadling Country, had many
things to occupy her mind, for not only did she look after the weaving
and embroidery of her bevy of maids, and assist all those who came to
her to implore her help--beasts and birds as well as people--but she
was a close student of the arts of sorcery and spent much time in her
Magical Laboratory, where she strove to find a remedy for every evil
and to perfect her skill in magic.

Nevertheless, she did not forget to look in the Great Book of Records
each day to see if any mention was made of the visit of Ozma and
Dorothy to the Enchanted Mountain of the Flatheads and the Magic Isle
of the Skeezers. The Records told her that Ozma had arrived at the
mountain, that she had escaped, with her companion, and gone to the
island of the Skeezers, and that Queen Coo-ee-oh had submerged the
island so that it was entirely under water. Then came the statement
that the Flatheads had come to the lake to poison the fishes and that
their Supreme Dictator had transformed Queen Coo-ee-oh into a swan.

No other details were given in the Great Book and so Glinda did not
know that since Coo-ee-oh had forgotten her magic none of the Skeezers
knew how to raise the island to the surface again. So Glinda was not
worried about Ozma and Dorothy until one morning, while she sat with
her maids, there came a sudden clang of the great alarm bell. This was
so unusual that every maid gave a start and even the Sorceress for a
moment could not think what the alarm meant.

Then she remembered the ring she had given Dorothy when she left the
palace to start on her venture. In giving the ring Glinda had warned
the little girl not to use its magic powers unless she and Ozma were in
real danger, but then she was to turn it on her finger once to the
right and once to the left and Glinda's alarm bell would ring.

So the Sorceress now knew that danger threatened her beloved Ruler and
Princess Dorothy, and she hurried to her magic room to seek information
as to what sort of danger it was. The answer to her question was not
very satisfactory, for it was only: "Ozma and Dorothy are prisoners in
the great Dome of the Isle of the Skeezers, and the Dome is under the
water of the lake."

"Hasn't Ozma the power to raise the island to the surface?" inquired
Glinda.

"No," was the reply, and the Record refused to say more except that
Queen Coo-ee-oh, who alone could command the island to rise, had been
transformed by the Flathead Su-dic into a Diamond Swan.

Then Glinda consulted the past records of the Skeezers in the Great
Book. After diligent search she discovered that Coo-ee-oh was a
powerful sorceress who had gained most of her power by treacherously
transforming the Adepts of Magic, who were visiting her, into three
fishes--gold, silver and bronze--after which she had them cast into the
lake.

Glinda reflected earnestly on this information and decided that someone
must go to Ozma's assistance. While there was no great need of haste,
because Ozma and Dorothy could live in a submerged dome a long time, it
was evident they could not get out until someone was able to raise the
island.

The Sorceress looked through all her recipes and books of sorcery, but
could find no magic that would raise a sunken island. Such a thing had
never before been required in sorcery. Then Glinda made a little
island, covered by a glass dome, and sunk it in a pond near her castle,
and experimented in magical ways to bring it to the surface. She made
several such experiments, but all were failures. It seemed a simple
thing to do, yet she could not do it.

Nevertheless, the wise Sorceress did not despair of finding a way to
liberate her friends. Finally she concluded that the best thing to do
was to go to the Skeezer country and examine the lake. While there she
was more likely to discover a solution to the problem that bothered
her, and to work out a plan for the rescue of Ozma and Dorothy.

So Glinda summoned her storks and her aerial chariot, and telling her
maids she was going on a journey and might not soon return, she entered
the chariot and was carried swiftly to the Emerald City.

In Princess Ozma's palace the Scarecrow was now acting as Ruler of the
Land of Oz. There wasn't much for him to do, because all the affairs of
state moved so smoothly, but he was there in case anything unforeseen
should happen.

Glinda found the Scarecrow playing croquet with Trot and Betsy Bobbin,
two little girls who lived at the palace under Ozma's protection and
were great friends of Dorothy and much loved by all the Oz people.

"Something's happened!" cried Trot, as the chariot of the Sorceress
descended near them. "Glinda never comes here 'cept something's gone
wrong."

"I hope no harm has come to Ozma, or Dorothy," said Betsy anxiously, as
the lovely Sorceress stepped down from her chariot.

Glinda approached the Scarecrow and told him of the dilemma of Ozma and
Dorothy and she added: "We must save them, somehow, Scarecrow."

"Of course," replied the Scarecrow, stumbling over a wicket and falling
flat on his painted face.

The girls picked him up and patted his straw stuffing into shape, and
he continued, as if nothing had occurred: "But you'll have to tell me
what to do, for I never have raised a sunken island in all my life."

"We must have a Council of State as soon as possible," proposed the
Sorceress. "Please send messengers to summon all of Ozma's counsellors
to this palace. Then we can decide what is best to be done."

The Scarecrow lost no time in doing this. Fortunately most of the royal
counsellors were in the Emerald City or near to it, so they all met in
the throne room of the palace that same evening.




Chapter Fourteen

Ozma's Counsellors


No Ruler ever had such a queer assortment of advisers as the Princess
Ozma had gathered about her throne. Indeed, in no other country could
such amazing people exist. But Ozma loved them for their peculiarities
and could trust every one of them.

First there was the Tin Woodman. Every bit of him was tin, brightly
polished. All his joints were kept well oiled and moved smoothly. He
carried a gleaming axe to prove he was a woodman, but seldom had cause
to use it because he lived in a magnificent tin castle in the Winkie
Country of Oz and was the Emperor of all the Winkies. The Tin Woodman's
name was Nick Chopper. He had a very good mind, but his heart was not
of much account, so he was very careful to do nothing unkind or to hurt
anyone's feelings.

Another counsellor was Scraps, the Patchwork Girl of Oz, who was made
of a gaudy patchwork quilt, cut into shape and stuffed with cotton.
This Patchwork Girl was very intelligent, but so full of fun and mad
pranks that a lot of more stupid folks thought she must be crazy.
Scraps was jolly under all conditions, however grave they might be, but
her laughter and good spirits were of value in cheering others and in
her seemingly careless remarks much wisdom could often be found.

Then there was the Shaggy Man--shaggy from head to foot, hair and
whiskers, clothes and shoes--but very kind and gentle and one of Ozma's
most loyal supporters.

Tik-Tok was there, a copper man with machinery inside him, so cleverly
constructed that he moved, spoke and thought by three separate
clock-works. Tik-Tok was very reliable because he always did exactly
what he was wound up to do, but his machinery was liable to run down at
times and then he was quite helpless until wound up again.

A different sort of person was Jack Pumpkinhead, one of Ozma's oldest
friends and her companion on many adventures. Jack's body was very
crude and awkward, being formed of limbs of trees of different sizes,
jointed with wooden pegs. But it was a substantial body and not likely
to break or wear out, and when it was dressed the clothes covered much
of its roughness. The head of Jack Pumpkinhead was, as you have
guessed, a ripe pumpkin, with the eyes, nose and mouth carved upon one
side. The pumpkin was stuck on Jack's wooden neck and was liable to get
turned sidewise or backward and then he would have to straighten it
with his wooden hands.

The worst thing about this sort of a head was that it did not keep well
and was sure to spoil sooner or later. So Jack's main business was to
grow a field of fine pumpkins each year, and always before his old head
spoiled he would select a fresh pumpkin from the field and carve the
features on it very neatly, and have it ready to replace the old head
whenever it became necessary. He didn't always carve it the same way,
so his friends never knew exactly what sort of an expression they would
find on his face. But there was no mistaking him, because he was the
only pumpkin-headed man alive in the Land of Oz.

A one-legged sailor-man was a member of Ozma's council. His name was
Cap'n Bill and he had come to the Land of Oz with Trot, and had been
made welcome on account of his cleverness, honesty and good nature. He
wore a wooden leg to replace the one he had lost and was a great friend
of all the children in Oz because he could whittle all sorts of toys
out of wood with his big jack-knife.

Professor H. M. Wogglebug, T. E., was another member of the council.
The "H. M." meant Highly Magnified, for the Professor was once a little
bug, who became magnified to the size of a man and always remained so.
The "T. E." meant that he was Thoroughly Educated. He was at the head
of Princess Ozma's Royal Athletic College, and so that the students
would not have to study and so lose much time that could be devoted to
athletic sports, such as football, baseball and the like, Professor
Wogglebug had invented the famous Educational Pills. If one of the
college students took a Geography Pill after breakfast, he knew his
geography lesson in an instant; if he took a Spelling Pill he at once
knew his spelling lesson, and an Arithmetic Pill enabled the student to
do any kind of sum without having to think about it.

These useful pills made the college very popular and taught the boys
and girls of Oz their lessons in the easiest possible way. In spite of
this, Professor Wogglebug was not a favorite outside his college, for
he was very conceited and admired himself so much and displayed his
cleverness and learning so constantly, that no one cared to associate
with him. Ozma found him of value in her councils, nevertheless.

Perhaps the most splendidly dressed of all those present was a great
frog as large as a man, called the Frogman, who was noted for his wise
sayings. He had come to the Emerald City from the Yip Country of Oz and
was a guest of honor. His long-tailed coat was of velvet, his vest of
satin and his trousers of finest silk. There were diamond buckles on
his shoes and he carried a gold-headed cane and a high silk hat. All of
the bright colors were represented in his rich attire, so it tired
one's eyes to look at him for long, until one became used to his
splendor.

The best farmer in all Oz was Uncle Henry, who was Dorothy's own uncle,
and who now lived near the Emerald City with his wife Aunt Em. Uncle
Henry taught the Oz people how to grow the finest vegetables and fruits
and grains and was of much use to Ozma in keeping the Royal Storehouses
well filled. He, too, was a counsellor.

The reason I mention the little Wizard of Oz last is because he was the
most important man in the Land of Oz. He wasn't a big man in size but
he was a man in power and intelligence and second only to Glinda the
Good in all the mystic arts of magic. Glinda had taught him, and the
Wizard and the Sorceress were the only ones in Oz permitted by law to
practice wizardry and sorcery, which they applied only to good uses and
for the benefit of the people.

The Wizard wasn't exactly handsome but he was pleasant to look at. His
bald head was as shiny as if it had been varnished; there was always a
merry twinkle in his eyes and he was as spry as a schoolboy.  Dorothy
says the reason the Wizard is not as powerful as Glinda is because
Glinda didn't teach him all she knows, but what the Wizard knows he
knows very well and so he performs some very remarkable magic. The ten
I have mentioned assembled, with the Scarecrow and Glinda, in Ozma's
throne room, right after dinner that evening, and the Sorceress told
them all she knew of the plight of Ozma and Dorothy.

"Of course we must rescue them," she continued, "and the sooner they
are rescued the better pleased they will be; but what we must now
determine is how they can be saved. That is why I have called you
together in council."

"The easiest way," remarked the Shaggy Man, "is to raise the sunken
island of the Skeezers to the top of the water again."

"Tell me how?" said Glinda.

"I don't know how, your Highness, for I have never raised a sunken
island."

"We might all get under it and lift," suggested Professor Wogglebug.

"How can we get under it when it rests on the bottom of the lake?"
asked the Sorceress.

"Couldn't we throw a rope around it and pull it ashore?" inquired Jack
Pumpkinhead.

"Why not pump the water out of the lake?" suggested the Patchwork Girl
with a laugh.

"Do be sensible!" pleaded Glinda. "This is a serious matter, and we
must give it serious thought."

"How big is the lake and how big is the island?" was the Frogman's
question.

"None of us can tell, for we have not been there."

"In that case," said the Scarecrow, "it appears to me we ought to go to
the Skeezer country and examine it carefully."

"Quite right," agreed the Tin Woodman.

"We-will-have-to-go-there-any-how," remarked Tik-Tok in his jerky
machine voice.

"The question is which of us shall go, and how many of us?" said the
Wizard.

"I shall go of course," declared the Scarecrow.

"And I," said Scraps.

"It is my duty to Ozma to go," asserted the Tin Woodman.

"I could not stay away, knowing our loved Princess is in danger," said
the Wizard.

"We all feel like that," Uncle Henry said.

Finally one and all present decided to go to the Skeezer country, with
Glinda and the little Wizard to lead them. Magic must meet magic in
order to conquer it, so these two skillful magic-workers were necessary
to insure the success of the expedition.

They were all ready to start at a moment's notice, for none had any
affairs of importance to attend to. Jack was wearing a newly made
Pumpkin-head and the Scarecrow had recently been stuffed with fresh
straw. Tik-Tok's machinery was in good running order and the Tin
Woodman always was well oiled.

"It is quite a long journey," said Glinda, "and while I might travel
quickly to the Skeezer country by means of my stork chariot the rest of
you will be obliged to walk. So, as we must keep together, I will send
my chariot back to my castle and we will plan to leave the Emerald City
at sunrise to-morrow."




Chapter Fifteen

The Great Sorceress


Betsy and Trot, when they heard of the rescue expedition, begged the
Wizard to permit them to join it and he consented. The Glass Cat,
overhearing the conversation, wanted to go also and to this the Wizard
made no objection.

This Glass Cat was one of the real curiosities of Oz. It had been made
and brought to life by a clever magician named Dr. Pipt, who was not
now permitted to work magic and was an ordinary citizen of the Emerald
City. The cat was of transparent glass, through which one could plainly
see its ruby heart beating and its pink brains whirling around in the
top of the head.

The Glass Cat's eyes were emeralds; its fluffy tail was of spun glass
and very beautiful. The ruby heart, while pretty to look at, was hard
and cold and the Glass Cat's disposition was not pleasant at all times.
It scorned to catch mice, did not eat, and was extremely lazy. If you
complimented the remarkable cat on her beauty, she would be very
friendly, for she loved admiration above everything. The pink brains
were always working and their owner was indeed more intelligent than
most common cats.

Three other additions to the rescue party were made the next morning,
just as they were setting out upon their journey. The first was a
little boy called Button Bright, because he had no other name that
anyone could remember. He was a fine, manly little fellow, well
mannered and good humored, who had only one bad fault. He was
continually getting lost. To be sure, Button Bright got found as often
as he got lost, but when he was missing his friends could not help
being anxious about him.

"Some day," predicted the Patchwork Girl, "he won't be found, and that
will be the last of him." But that didn't worry Button Bright, who was
so careless that he did not seem to be able to break the habit of
getting lost.

The second addition to the party was a Munchkin boy of about Button
Bright's age, named Ojo. He was often called "Ojo the Lucky," because
good fortune followed him wherever he went. He and Button Bright were
close friends, although of such different natures, and Trot and Betsy
were fond of both.

The third and last to join the expedition was an enormous lion, one of
Ozma's regular guardians and the most important and intelligent beast
in all Oz. He called himself the Cowardly Lion, saying that every
little danger scared him so badly that his heart thumped against his
ribs, but all who knew him knew that the Cowardly Lion's fears were
coupled with bravery and that however much he might be frightened he
summoned courage to meet every danger he encountered. Often he had
saved Dorothy and Ozma in times of peril, but afterward he moaned and
trembled and wept because he had been so scared.

"If Ozma needs help, I'm going to help her," said the great beast.
"Also, I suspect the rest of you may need me on the journey--especially
Trot and Betsy--for you may pass through a dangerous part of the
country. I know that wild Gillikin country pretty well. Its forests
harbor many ferocious beasts."

They were glad the Cowardly Lion was to join them, and in good spirits
the entire party formed a procession and marched out of the Emerald
City amid the shouts of the people, who wished them success and a safe
return with their beloved Ruler.

They followed a different route from that taken by Ozma and Dorothy,
for they went through the Winkie Country and up north toward Oogaboo.
But before they got there they swerved to the left and entered the
Great Gillikin Forest, the nearest thing to a wilderness in all Oz.
Even the Cowardly Lion had to admit that certain parts of this forest
were unknown to him, although he had often wandered among the trees,
and the Scarecrow and Tin Woodman, who were great travelers, never had
been there at all.

The forest was only reached after a tedious tramp, for some of the
Rescue Expedition were quite awkward on their feet. The Patchwork Girl
was as light as a feather and very spry; the Tin Woodman covered the
ground as easily as Uncle Henry and the Wizard; but Tik-Tok moved
slowly and the slightest obstruction in the road would halt him until
the others cleared it away. Then, too, Tik-Tok's machinery kept running
down, so Betsy and Trot took turns in winding it up.

The Scarecrow was more clumsy but less bother, for although he often
stumbled and fell he could scramble up again and a little patting of
his straw-stuffed body would put him in good shape again.

Another awkward one was Jack Pumpkinhead, for walking would jar his
head around on his neck and then he would be likely to go in the wrong
direction. But the Frogman took Jack's arm and then he followed the
path more easily.

Cap'n Bill's wooden leg didn't prevent him from keeping up with the
others and the old sailor could walk as far as any of them.

When they entered the forest the Cowardly Lion took the lead. There was
no path here for men, but many beasts had made paths of their own which
only the eyes of the Lion, practiced in woodcraft, could discern. So he
stalked ahead and wound his way in and out, the others following in
single file, Glinda being next to the Lion.

There are dangers in the forest, of course, but as the huge Lion headed
the party he kept the wild denizens of the wilderness from bothering
the travelers. Once, to be sure, an enormous leopard sprang upon the
Glass Cat and caught her in his powerful jaws, but he broke several of
his teeth and with howls of pain and dismay dropped his prey and
vanished among the trees.

"Are you hurt?" Trot anxiously inquired of the Glass Cat.

"How silly!" exclaimed the creature in an irritated tone of voice;
"nothing can hurt glass, and I'm too solid to break easily. But I'm
annoyed at that leopard's impudence. He has no respect for beauty or
intelligence. If he had noticed my pink brains work, I'm sure he would
have realized I'm too important to be grabbed in a wild beast's jaws."

"Never mind," said Trot consolingly; "I'm sure he won't do it again."

They were almost in the center of the forest when Ojo, the Munchkin
boy, suddenly said: "Why, where's Button Bright?"

They halted and looked around them. Button Bright was not with the
party.

"Dear me," remarked Betsy, "I expect he's lost again!"

"When did you see him last, Ojo?" inquired Glinda.

"It was some time ago," replied Ojo. "He was trailing along at the end
and throwing twigs at the squirrels in the trees. Then I went to talk
to Betsy and Trot, and just now I noticed he was gone."

"This is too bad," declared the Wizard, "for it is sure to delay our
journey. We must find Button Bright before we go any farther, for this
forest is full of ferocious beasts that would not hesitate to tear the
boy to pieces."

"But what shall we do?" asked the Scarecrow. "If any of us leaves the
party to search for Button Bright he or she might fall a victim to the
beasts, and if the Lion leaves us we will have no protector.

"The Glass Cat could go," suggested the Frogman. "The beasts can do her
no harm, as we have discovered."

The Wizard turned to Glinda.

"Cannot your sorcery discover where Button Bright is?" he asked.

"I think so," replied the Sorceress.

She called to Uncle Henry, who had been carrying her wicker box, to
bring it to her, and when he obeyed she opened it and drew out a small
round mirror. On the surface of the glass she dusted a white powder and
then wiped it away with her handkerchief and looked in the mirror. It
reflected a part of the forest, and there, beneath a wide-spreading
tree, Button Bright was lying asleep. On one side of him crouched a
tiger, ready to spring; on the other side was a big gray wolf, its
bared fangs glistening in a wicked way.

"Goodness me!" cried Trot, looking over Glinda's shoulder. "They'll
catch and kill him sure."

Everyone crowded around for a glimpse at the magic mirror.

"Pretty bad--pretty bad!" said the Scarecrow sorrowfully.

"Comes of getting lost!" said Cap'n Bill, sighing.

"Guess he's a goner!" said the Frogman, wiping his eyes on his purple
silk handkerchief.

"But where is he?  Can't we save him?" asked Ojo the Lucky.

"If we knew where he is we could probably save him," replied the little
Wizard, "but that tree looks so much like all the other trees, that we
can't tell whether it's far away or near by."

"Look at Glinda!" exclaimed Betsy

Glinda, having handed the mirror to the Wizard, had stepped aside and
was making strange passes with her outstretched arms and reciting in
low, sweet tones a mystical incantation. Most of them watched the
Sorceress with anxious eyes, despair giving way to the hope that she
might be able to save their friend. The Wizard, however, watched the
scene in the mirror, while over his shoulders peered Trot, the
Scarecrow and the Shaggy Man.

What they saw was more strange than Glinda's actions. The tiger started
to spring on the sleeping boy, but suddenly lost its power to move and
lay flat upon the ground. The gray wolf seemed unable to lift its feet
from the ground. It pulled first at one leg and then at another, and
finding itself strangely confined to the spot began to back and snarl
angrily. They couldn't hear the barkings and snarls, but they could see
the creature's mouth open and its thick lips move. Button Bright,
however, being but a few feet away from the wolf, heard its cries of
rage, which wakened him from his untroubled sleep. The boy sat up and
looked first at the tiger and then at the wolf. His face showed that
for a moment he was quite frightened, but he soon saw that the beasts
were unable to approach him and so he got upon his feet and examined
them curiously, with a mischievous smile upon his face. Then he
deliberately kicked the tiger's head with his foot and catching up a
fallen branch of a tree he went to the wolf and gave it a good
whacking. Both the beasts were furious at such treatment but could not
resent it.

Button Bright now threw down the stick and with his hands in his
pockets wandered carelessly away.

"Now," said Glinda, "let the Glass Cat run and find him. He is in that
direction," pointing the way, "but how far off I do not know. Make
haste and lead him back to us as quickly as you can."

The Glass Cat did not obey everyone's orders, but she really feared the
great Sorceress, so as soon as the words were spoken the crystal animal
darted away and was quickly lost to sight.

The Wizard handed the mirror back to Glinda, for the woodland scene had
now faded from the glass. Then those who cared to rest sat down to
await Button Bright's coming. It was not long before hye appeared
through the trees and as he rejoined his friends he said in a peevish
tone:

"Don't ever send that Glass Cat to find me again. She was very impolite
and, if we didn't all know that she had no manners, I'd say she
insulted me."

Glinda turned upon the boy sternly.

"You have caused all of us much anxiety and annoyance," said she. "Only
my magic saved you from destruction. I forbid you to get lost again."

"Of course," he answered. "It won't be my fault if I get lost again;
but it wasn't my fault this time."




Chapter Sixteen

The Enchanted Fishes


I must now tell you what happened to Ervic and the three other Skeezers
who were left floating in the iron boat after Queen Coo-ee-oh had been
transformed into a Diamond Swan by the magic of the Flathead Su-dic.

The four Skeezers were all young men and their leader was Ervic.
Coo-ee-oh had taken them with her in the boat to assist her if she
captured the Flathead chief, as she hoped to do by means of her silver
rope. They knew nothing about the witchcraft that moved the submarine
and so, when left floating upon the lake, were at a loss what to do.
The submarine could not be submerged by them or made to return to the
sunken island. There were neither oars nor sails in the boat, which was
not anchored but drifted quietly upon the surface of the lake.

The Diamond Swan had no further thought or care for her people. She had
sailed over to the other side of the lake and all the calls and
pleadings of Ervic and his companions were unheeded by the vain bird.
As there was nothing else for them to do, they sat quietly in their
boat and waited as patiently as they could for someone to come to their
aid.

The Flatheads had refused to help them and had gone back to their
mountain. All the Skeezers were imprisoned in the Great Dome and could
not help even themselves. When evening came, they saw the Diamond Swan,
still keeping to the opposite shore of the lake, walk out of the water
to the sands, shake her diamond-sprinkled feathers, and then disappear
among the bushes to seek a resting place for the night.

"I'm hungry," said Ervic.

"I'm cold," said another Skeezer.

"I'm tired," said a third.

"I'm afraid," said the last one of them.

But it did them no good to complain. Night fell and the moon rose and
cast a silvery sheen over the surface of the water.

"Go to sleep," said Ervic to his companions. "I'll stay awake and
watch, for we may be rescued in some unexpected way."

So the other three laid themselves down in the bottom of the boat and
were soon fast asleep.

Ervic watched. He rested himself by leaning over the bow of the boat,
his face near to the moonlit water, and thought dreamily of the day's
surprising events and wondered what would happen to the prisoners in
the Great Dome.

Suddenly a tiny goldfish popped its head above the surface of the lake,
not more than a foot from his eyes. A silverfish then raised its head
beside that of the goldfish, and a moment later a bronzefish lifted its
head beside the others. The three fish, all in a row, looked earnestly
with their round, bright eyes into the astonished eyes of Ervic the
Skeezer.

"We are the three Adepts whom Queen Coo-ee-oh betrayed and wickedly
transformed," said the goldfish, its voice low and soft but distinctly
heard in the stillness of the night.

"I know of our Queen's treacherous deed," replied Ervic, "and I am
sorry for your misfortune. Have you been in the lake ever since?"

"Yes," was the reply.

"I--I hope you are well--and comfortable," stammered Ervic, not knowing
what else to say.

"We knew that some day Coo-ee-oh would meet with the fate she so richly
deserves," declared the bronzefish. "We have waited and watched for
this time. Now if you will promise to help us and will be faithful and
true, you can aid us in regaining our natural forms, and save yourself
and all your people from the dangers that now threaten you."

"Well," said Ervic, "you can depend on my doing the best I can. But I'm
no witch, nor magician, you must know."

"All we ask is that you obey our instructions," returned the
silverfish. "We know that you are honest and that you served Coo-ee-oh
only because you were obliged to in order to escape her anger. Do as we
command and all will be well."

"I promise!" exclaimed the young man. "Tell me what I am to do first."

"You will find in the bottom of your boat the silver cord which dropped
from Coo-ee-oh's hand when she was transformed," said the goldfish.
"Tie one end of that cord to the bow of your boat and drop the other
end to us in the water. Together we will pull your boat to the shore."

Ervic much doubted that the three small fishes could move so heavy a
boat, but he did as he was told and the fishes all seized their end of
the silver cord in their mouths and headed toward the nearest shore,
which was the very place where the Flatheads had stood when they
conquered Queen Coo-ee-oh.

At first the boat did not move at all, although the fishes pulled with
all their strength. But presently the strain began to tell. Very slowly
the boat crept toward the shore, gaining more speed at every moment. A
couple of yards away from the sandy beach the fishes dropped the cord
from their mouths and swam to one side, while the iron boat, being now
under way, continued to move until its prow grated upon the sands.

Ervic leaned over the side and said to the fishes: "What next?"

"You will find upon the sand," said the silverfish, "a copper kettle,
which the Su-dic forgot when he went away. Cleanse it thoroughly in the
water of the lake, for it has had poison in it. When it is cleaned,
fill it with fresh water and hold it over the side of the boat, so that
we three may swim into the kettle. We will then instruct you further."

"Do you wish me to catch you, then?" asked Ervic in surprise.

"Yes," was the reply.

So Ervic jumped out of the boat and found the copper kettle. Carrying
it a little way down the beach, he washed it well, scrubbing away every
drop of the poison it had contained with sand from the shore.

Then he went back to the boat.

Ervic's comrades were still sound asleep and knew nothing of the three
fishes or what strange happenings were taking place about them. Ervic
dipped the kettle in the lake, holding fast to the handle until it was
under water. The gold and silver and bronze fishes promptly swam into
the kettle. The young Skeezer then lifted it, poured out a little of
the water so it would not spill over the edge, and said to the fishes:
"What next?"

"Carry the kettle to the shore. Take one hundred steps to the east,
along the edge of the lake, and then you will see a path leading
through the meadows, up hill and down dale. Follow the path until you
come to a cottage which is painted a purple color with white trimmings.
When you stop at the gate of this cottage we will tell you what to do
next. Be careful, above all, not to stumble and spill the water from
the kettle, or you would destroy us and all you have done would be in
vain."

The goldfish issued these commands and Ervic promised to be careful and
started to obey. He left his sleeping comrades in the boat, stepping
cautiously over their bodies, and on reaching the shore took exactly
one hundred steps to the east. Then he looked for the path and the
moonlight was so bright that he easily discovered it, although it was
hidden from view by tall weeds until one came full upon it. This path
was very narrow and did not seem to be much used, but it was quite
distinct and Ervic had no difficulty in following it. He walked through
a broad meadow, covered with tall grass and weeds, up a hill and down
into a valley and then up another hill and down again.

It seemed to Ervic that he had walked miles and miles. Indeed the moon
sank low and day was beginning to dawn when finally he discovered by
the roadside a pretty little cottage, painted purple with white
trimmings. It was a lonely place--no other buildings were anywhere
about and the ground was not tilled at all. No farmer lived here, that
was certain. Who would care to dwell in such an isolated place?

But Ervic did not bother his head long with such questions. He went up
to the gate that led to the cottage, set the copper kettle carefully
down and bending over it asked:

"What next?"




Chapter Seventeen

Under the Great Dome


When Glinda the Good and her followers of the Rescue Expedition came in
sight of the Enchanted Mountain of the Flatheads, it was away to the
left of them, for the route they had taken through the Great Forest was
some distance from that followed by Ozma and Dorothy.

They halted awhile to decide whether they should call upon the Supreme
Dictator first, or go on to the Lake of the Skeezers.

"If we go to the mountain," said the Wizard, "we may get into trouble
with that wicked Su-dic, and then we would be delayed in rescuing Ozma
and Dorothy. So I think our best plan will be to go to the Skeezer
Country, raise the sunken island and save our friends and the
imprisoned Skeezers. Afterward we can visit the mountain and punish the
cruel magician of the Flatheads."

"That is sensible," approved the Shaggy Man. "I quite agree with you."

The others, too, seemed to think the Wizard's plan the best, and Glinda
herself commended it, so on they marched toward the line of palm trees
that hid the Skeezers' lake from view.

Pretty soon they came to the palms. These were set closely together,
the branches, which came quite to the ground, being so tightly
interlaced that even the Glass Cat could scarcely find a place to
squeeze through. The path which the Flatheads used was some distance
away.

"Here's a job for the Tin Woodman," said the Scarecrow.

So the Tin Woodman, who was always glad to be of use, set to work with
his sharp, gleaming axe, which he always carried, and in a surprisingly
short time had chopped away enough branches to permit them all to pass
easily through the trees.

Now the clear waters of the beautiful lake were before them and by
looking closely they could see the outlines of the Great Dome of the
sunken island, far from shore and directly in the center of the lake.

Of course every eye was at first fixed upon this dome, where Ozma and
Dorothy and the Skeezers were still fast prisoners. But soon their
attention was caught by a more brilliant sight, for here was the
Diamond Swan swimming just before them, its long neck arched proudly,
the amethyst eyes gleaming and all the diamond-sprinkled feathers
glistening splendidly under the rays of the sun.

"That," said Glinda, "is the transformation of Queen Coo-ce-oh, the
haughty and wicked witch who betrayed the three Adepts at Magic and
treated her people like slaves."

"She's wonderfully beautiful now," remarked the Frogman.

"It doesn't seem like much of a punishment," said Trot. "The Flathead
Su-dic ought to have made her a toad."

"I am sure Coo-ee-oh is punished," said Glinda, "for she has lost all
her magic power and her grand palace and can no longer misrule the poor
Skeezers."

"Let us call to her, and hear what she has to say," proposed the Wizard.

So Glinda beckoned the Diamond Swan, which swam gracefully to a
position near them. Before anyone could speak Coo-ee-oh called to them
in a rasping voice--for the voice of a swan is always harsh and
unpleasant--and said with much pride:

"Admire me, Strangers!  Admire the lovely Coo-ee-oh, the handsomest
creature in all Oz. Admire me!"

"Handsome is as handsome does," replied the Scarecrow. "Are your deeds
lovely, Coo-ce-oh?"

"Deeds?  What deeds can a swan do but swim around and give pleasure to
all beholders?" said the sparkling bird.

"Have you forgotten your former life? Have you forgotten your magic and
witchcraft?" inquired the Wizard.

"Magic--witchcraft? Pshaw, who cares for such silly things?" retorted
Coo-ee-oh. "As for my past life, it seems like an unpleasant dream. I
wouldn't go back to it if I could. Don't you admire my beauty,
Strangers?"

"Tell us, Coo-ee-oh," said Glinda earnestly, "if you can recall enough
of your witchcraft to enable us to raise the sunken island to the
surface of the lake. Tell us that and I'll give you a string of pearls
to wear around your neck and add to your beauty."

"Nothing can add to my beauty, for I'm the most beautiful creature
anywhere in the whole world."

"But how can we raise the island?"

"I don't know and I don't care. If ever I knew I've forgotten, and I'm
glad of it," was the response. "Just watch me circle around and see me
glitter!

"It's no use," said Button Bright; "the old Swan is too much in love
with herself to think of anything else."

"That's a fact," agreed Betsy with a sigh; "but we've got to get Ozma
and Dorothy out of that lake, somehow or other."

"And we must do it in our own way," added the Scarecrow.

"But how?" asked Uncle Henry in a grave voice, for he could not bear to
think of his dear niece Dorothy being out there under water; "how shall
we do it?"

"Leave that to Glinda," advised the Wizard, realizing he was helpless
to do it himself.

"If it were just an ordinary sunken island," said the powerful
sorceress, "there would be several ways by which I might bring it to
the surface again. But this is a Magic Isle, and by some curious art of
witchcraft, unknown to any but Queen Coo-ce-oh, it obeys certain
commands of magic and will not respond to any other. I do not despair
in the least, but it will require some deep study to solve this
difficult problem. If the Swan could only remember the witchcraft that
she invented and knew as a woman, I could force her to tell me the
secret, but all her former knowledge is now forgotten."

"It seems to me," said the Wizard after a brief silence had followed
Glinda's speech, "that there are three fishes in this lake that used to
be Adepts at Magic and from whom Coo-ee-oh stole much of her knowledge.
If we could find those fishes and return them to their former shapes,
they could doubtless tell us what to do to bring the sunken island to
the surface."

"I have thought of those fishes," replied Glinda, "but among so many
fishes as this lake contains how are we to single them out?"

You will understand, of course, that had Glinda been at home in her
castle, where the Great Book of Records was, she would have known that
Ervic the Skeezer already had taken the gold and silver and bronze
fishes from the lake. But that act had been recorded in the Book after
Glinda had set out on this journey, so it was all unknown to her.

"I think I see a boat yonder on the shore," said Ojo the Munchkin boy,
pointing to a place around the edge of the lake. "If we could get that
boat and row all over the lake, calling to the magic fishes, we might
be able to find them."

"Let us go to the boat," said the Wizard.

They walked around the lake to where the boat was stranded upon the
beach, but found it empty. It was a mere shell of blackened steel, with
a collapsible roof that, when in position, made the submarine
watertight, but at present the roof rested in slots on either side of
the magic craft. There were no oars or sails, no machinery to make the
boat go, and although Glinda promptly realized it was meant to be
operated by witchcraft, she was not acquainted with that sort of magic.

"However," said she, "the boat is merely a boat, and I believe I can
make it obey a command of sorcery, as well as it did the command of
witchcraft. After I have given a little thought to the matter, the boat
will take us wherever we desire to go."

"Not all of us," returned the Wizard, "for it won't hold so many. But,
most noble Sorceress, provided you can make the boat go, of what use
will it be to us?"

"Can't we use it to catch the three fishes?" asked Button Bright.

"It will not be necessary to use the boat for that purpose," replied
Glinda. "Wherever in the lake the enchanted fishes may be, they will
answer to my call. What I am trying to discover is how the boat came to
be on this shore, while the island on which it belongs is under water
yonder. Did Coo-ee-oh come here in the boat to meet the Flatheads
before the island was sunk, or afterward?"

No one could answer that question, of course; but while they pondered
the matter three young men advanced from the line of trees, and rather
timidly bowed to the strangers.

"Who are you, and where did you come from?" inquired the Wizard.

"We are Skeezers," answered one of them, "and our home is on the Magic
Isle of the Lake. We ran away when we saw you coming, and hid behind
the trees, but as you are Strangers and seem to be friendly we decided
to meet you, for we are in great trouble and need assistance."

"If you belong on the island, why are you here?" demanded Glinda.

So they told her all the story: How the Queen had defied the Flatheads
and submerged the whole island so that her enemies could not get to it
or destroy it; how, when the Flatheads came to the shore, Coo-ee-oh had
commanded them, together with their friend Ervic, to go with her in the
submarine to conquer the Su-dic, and how the boat had shot out from the
basement of the sunken isle, obeying a magic word, and risen to the
surface, where it opened and floated upon the water.

Then followed the account of how the Su-dic had transformed Coo-ee-oh
into a swan, after which she had forgotten all the witchcraft she ever
knew. The young men told how, in the night when they were asleep, their
comrade Ervic had mysteriously disappeared, while the boat in some
strange manner had floated to the shore and stranded upon the beach.

That was all they knew. They had searched in vain for three days for
Ervic. As their island was under water and they could not get back to
it, the three Skeezers had no place to go, and so had waited patiently
beside their boat for something to happen.

Being questioned by Glinda and the Wizard, they told all they knew
about Ozma and Dorothy and declared the two girls were still in the
village under the Great Dome. They were quite safe and would be well
cared for by Lady Aurex, now that the Queen who opposed them was out of
the way.

When they had gleaned all the information they could from these
Skeezers, the Wizard said to Glinda:

"If you find you can make this boat obey your sorcery, you could have
it return to the island, submerge itself, and enter the door in the
basement from which it came. But I cannot see that our going to the
sunken island would enable our friends to escape. We would only Join
them as prisoners."

"Not so, friend Wizard," replied Glinda. "If the boat would obey my
commands to enter the basement door, it would also obey my commands to
come out again, and I could bring Ozma and Dorothy back with me."

"And leave all of our people still imprisoned?" asked one of the
Skeezers reproachfully.

"By making several trips in the boat, Glinda could fetch all your
people to the shore," replied the Wizard.

"But what could they do then?" inquired another Skeezer. "They would
have no homes and no place to go, and would be at the mercy of their
enemies, the Flatheads."

"That is true," said Glinda the Good. "And as these people are Ozma's
subjects, I think she would refuse to escape with Dorothy and leave the
others behind, or to abandon the island which is the lawful home of the
Skeezers. I believe the best plan will be to summon the three fishes
and learn from them how to raise the island."

The little Wizard seemed to think that this was rather a forlorn hope.

"How will you summon them," he asked the lovely Sorceress, "and how can
they hear you?"

"That is something we must consider carefully," responded stately
Glinda, with a serene smile.  "I think I can find a way."

All of Ozma's counsellors applauded this sentiment, for they knew well
the powers of the Sorceress.

"Very well," agreed the Wizard. "Summon them, most noble Glinda."




Chapter Eighteen

The Cleverness of Ervic


We must now return to Ervic the Skeezer, who, when he had set down the
copper kettle containing the three fishes at the gate of the lonely
cottage, had asked, "What next?"

The goldfish stuck its head above the water in the kettle and said in
its small but distinct voice:

"You are to lift the latch, open the door, and walk boldly into the
cottage. Do not be afraid of anything you see, for however you seem to
be threatened with dangers, nothing can harm you. The cottage is the
home of a powerful Yookoohoo, named Reera the Red, who assumes all
sorts of forms, sometimes changing her form several times in a day,
according to her fancy. What her real form may be we do not know. This
strange creature cannot be bribed with treasure, or coaxed through
friendship, or won by pity. She has never assisted anyone, or done
wrong to anyone, that we know of. All her wonderful powers are used for
her own selfish amusement. She will order you out of the house but you
must refuse to go. Remain and watch Reera closely and try to see what
she uses to accomplish her transformations. If you can discover the
secret whisper it to us and we will then tell you what to do next."

"That sounds easy," returned Ervic, who had listened carefully. "But
are you sure she will not hurt me, or try to transform me?"

"She may change your form," replied the goldfish, "but do not worry if
that happens, for we can break that enchantment easily. You may be sure
that nothing will harm you, so you must not be frightened at anything
you see or hear."

Now Ervic was as brave as any ordinary young man, and he knew the
fishes who spoke to him were truthful and to be relied upon,
nevertheless he experienced a strange sinking of the heart as he picked
up the kettle and approached the door of the cottage. His hand trembled
as he raised the latch, but he was resolved to obey his instructions.
He pushed the door open, took three strides into the middle of the one
room the cottage contained, and then stood still and looked around him.

The sights that met his gaze were enough to frighten anyone who had not
been properly warned. On the floor just before Ervic lay a great
crocodile, its red eyes gleaming wickedly and its wide open mouth
displaying rows of sharp teeth. Horned toads hopped about; each of the
four upper corners of the room was festooned with a thick cobweb, in
the center of which sat a spider as big around as a washbasin, and
armed with pincher-like claws; a red-and-green lizard was stretched at
full length on the window-sill and black rats darted in and out of the
holes they had gnawed in the floor of the cottage.

But the most startling thing was a huge gray ape which sat upon a bench
and knitted. It wore a lace cap, such as old ladies wear, and a little
apron of lace, but no other clothing. Its eyes were bright and looked
as if coals were burning in them. The ape moved as naturally as an
ordinary person might, and on Ervic's entrance stopped knitting and
raised its head to look at him.

"Get out!" cried a sharp voice, seeming to come from the ape's mouth.

Ervic saw another bench, empty, just beyond him, so he stepped over the
crocodile, sat down upon the bench and carefully placed the kettle
beside him.

"Get out!" again cried the voice.

Ervic shook his head.

"No," said he, "I'm going to stay."

The spiders left their four corners, dropped to the floor and made a
rush toward the young Skeezer, circling around his legs with their
pinchers extended. Ervic paid no attention to them. An enormous black
rat ran up Ervic's body, passed around his shoulders and uttered
piercing squeals in his ears, but he did not wince. The green-and-red
lizard, coming from the window-sill, approached Ervic and began
spitting a flaming fluid at him, but Ervic merely stared at the
creature and its flame did not touch him.

The crocodile raised its tail and, swinging around, swept Ervic off the
bench with a powerful blow. But the Skeezer managed to save the kettle
from upsetting and he got up, shook off the horned toads that were
crawling over him and resumed his seat on the bench.

All the creatures, after this first attack, remained motionless, as if
awaiting orders. The old gray ape knitted on, not looking toward Ervic
now, and the young Skeezer stolidly kept his seat. He expected
something else to happen, but nothing did. A full hour passed and Ervic
was growing nervous.

"What do you want?" the ape asked at last.

"Nothing," said Ervic.

"You may have that!" retorted the ape, and at this all the strange
creatures in the room broke into a chorus of cackling laughter.

Another long wait.

"Do you know who I am?" questioned the ape.

"You must be Reera the Red--the Yookoohoo," Ervic answered.

"Knowing so much, you must also know that I do not like strangers. Your
presence here in my home annoys me. Do you not fear my anger?"

"No," said the young man.

"Do you intend to obey me, and leave this house?" "No," replied Ervic,
just as quietly as the Yookoohoo had spoken.

The ape knitted for a long time before resuming the conversation.

"Curiosity," it said, "has led to many a man's undoing. I suppose in
some way you have learned that I do tricks of magic, and so through
curiosity you have come here. You may have been told that I do not
injure anyone, so you are bold enough to disobey my commands to go
away. You imagine that you may witness some of the rites of witchcraft,
and that they may amuse you. Have I spoken truly?"

"Well," remarked Ervic, who had been pondering on the strange
circumstances of his coming here, "you are right in some ways, but not
in others. I am told that you work magic only for your own amusement.
That seems to me very selfish. Few people understand magic. I'm told
that you are the only real Yookoohoo in all Oz. Why don't you amuse
others as well as yourself?"

"What right have you to question my actions?"

"None at all."

"And you say you are not here to demand any favors of me?"

"For myself I want nothing from you."

"You are wise in that. I never grant favors."

"That doesn't worry me," declared Ervic.

"But you are curious? You hope to witness some of my magic
transformations?"

"If you wish to perform any magic, go ahead," said Ervic. "It may
interest me and it may not. If you'd rather go on with your knitting,
it's all the same to me. I am in no hurry at all."

This may have puzzled Red Reera, but the face beneath the lace cap
could show no expression, being covered with hair. Perhaps in all her
career the Yookoohoo had never been visited by anyone who, like this
young man, asked for nothing, expected nothing, and had no reason for
coming except curiosity. This attitude practically disarmed the witch
and she began to regard the Skeezer in a more friendly way. She knitted
for some time, seemingly in deep thought, and then she arose and walked
to a big cupboard that stood against the wall of the room. When the
cupboard door was opened Ervic could see a lot of drawers inside, and
into one of these drawers--the second from the bottom--Reera thrust a
hairy hand.

Until now Ervic could see over the bent form of the ape, but suddenly
the form, with its back to him, seemed to straighten up and blot out
the cupboard of drawers. The ape had changed to the form of a woman,
dressed in the pretty Gillikin costume, and when she turned around he
saw that it was a young woman, whose face was quite attractive.

"Do you like me better this way?" Reera inquired with a smile.

"You look better," he said calmly, "but I'm not sure I like you any
better."

She laughed, saying: "During the heat of the day I like to be an ape,
for an ape doesn't wear any clothes to speak of. But if one has
gentlemen callers it is proper to dress up."

Ervic noticed her right hand was closed, as if she held something in
it. She shut the cupboard door, bent over the crocodile and in a moment
the creature had changed to a red wolf. It was not pretty even now, and
the wolf crouched beside its mistress as a dog might have done. Its
teeth looked as dangerous as had those of the crocodile.

Next the Yookoohoo went about touching all the lizards and toads, and
at her touch they became kittens. The rats she changed into chipmunks.
Now the only horrid creatures remaining were the four great spiders,
which hid themselves behind their thick webs.

"There!" Reera cried, "now my cottage presents a more comfortable
appearance. I love the toads and lizards and rats, because most people
hate them, but I would tire of them if they always remained the same.
Sometimes I change their forms a dozen times a day."

"You are clever," said Ervic. "I did not hear you utter any
incantations or magic words. All you did was to touch the creatures."

"Oh, do you think so?" she replied. "Well, touch them yourself, if you
like, and see if you can change their forms."

"No," said the Skeezer, "I don't understand magic and if I did I would
not try to imitate your skill. You are a wonderful Yookoohoo, while I
am only a common Skeezer."

This confession seemed to please Reera, who liked to have her
witchcraft appreciated.

"Will you go away now?" she asked. "I prefer to be alone."

"I prefer to stay here," said Ervic.

"In another person's home, where you are not wanted?"

"Yes."

"Is not your curiosity yet satisfied?" demanded Reera, with a smile.

"I don't know. Is there anything else you can do?"

"Many things. But why should I exhibit my powers to a stranger?"

"I can think of no reason at all," he replied.

She looked at him curiously.

"You want no power for yourself, you say, and you're too stupid to be
able to steal my secrets. This isn't a pretty cottage, while outside
are sunshine, broad prairies and beautiful wildflowers. Yet you insist
on sitting on that bench and annoying me with your unwelcome presence.
What have you in that kettle?"

"Three fishes," he answered readily.

"Where did you get them?"

"I caught them in the Lake of the Skeezers."

"What do you intend to do with the fishes?"

"I shall carry them to the home of a friend of mine who has three
children. The children will love to have the fishes for pets."

She came over to the bench and looked into the kettle, where the three
fishes were swimming quietly in the water.

"They're pretty," said Reera. "Let me transform them into something
else."

"No," objected the Skeezer.

"I love to transform things; it's so interesting. And I've never
transformed any fishes in all my life."

"Let them alone," said Ervic.

"What shapes would you prefer them to have? I can make them turtles, or
cute little sea-horses; or I could make them piglets, or rabbits, or
guinea-pigs; or, if you like I can make chickens of them, or eagles, or
bluejays."

"Let them alone!" repeated Ervic.

"You're not a very pleasant visitor," laughed Red Reera. "People accuse
me of being cross and crabbed and unsociable, and they are quite right.
If you had come here pleading and begging for favors, and half afraid
of my Yookoohoo magic, I'd have abused you until you ran away; but
you're quite different from that. You're the unsociable and crabbed and
disagreeable one, and so I like you, and bear with your grumpiness.
It's time for my midday meal; are you hungry?"

"No," said Ervic, although he really desired food.

"Well, I am," Reera declared and clapped her hands together. Instantly
a table appeared, spread with linen and bearing dishes of various
foods, some smoking hot. There were two plates laid, one at each end of
the table, and as soon as Reera seated herself all her creatures
gathered around her, as if they were accustomed to be fed when she ate.
The wolf squatted at her right hand and the kittens and chipmunks
gathered at her left.

"Come, Stranger, sit down and eat," she called cheerfully, "and while
we're eating let us decide into what forms we shall change your fishes."

"They're all right as they are," asserted Ervic, drawing up his bench
to the table. "The fishes are beauties--one gold, one silver and one
bronze. Nothing that has life is more lovely than a beautiful fish."

"What! Am I not more lovely?" Reera asked, smiling at his serious face.

"I don't object to you--for a Yookoohoo, you know," he said, helping
himself to the food and eating with good appetite.

"And don't you consider a beautiful girl more lovely than a fish,
however pretty the fish may be?"

"Well," replied Ervic, after a period of thought, "that might be. If
you transformed my three fish into three girls--girls who would be
Adepts at Magic, you know they might please me as well as the fish do.
You won't do that of course, because you can't, with all your skill.
And, should you be able to do so, I fear my troubles would be more than
I could bear. They would not consent to be my slaves--especially if
they were Adepts at Magic--and so they would command me to obey them.
No, Mistress Reera, let us not transform the fishes at all."

The Skeezer had put his case with remarkable cleverness. He realized
that if he appeared anxious for such a transformation the Yookoohoo
would not perform it, yet he had skillfully suggested that they be made
Adepts at Magic.




Chapter Nineteen

Red Reera, the Yookoohoo


After the meal was over and Reera had fed her pets, including the four
monster spiders which had come down from their webs to secure their
share, she made the table disappear from the floor of the cottage.

"I wish you'd consent to my transforming your fishes," she said, as she
took up her knitting again.

The Skeezer made no reply. He thought it unwise to hurry matters. All
during the afternoon they sat silent. Once Reera went to her cupboard
and after thrusting her hand into the same drawer as before, touched
the wolf and transformed it into a bird with gorgeous colored feathers.
This bird was larger than a parrot and of a somewhat different form,
but Ervic had never seen one like it before.

"Sing!" said Reera to the bird, which had perched itself on a big
wooden peg--as if it had been in the cottage before and knew just what
to do.

And the bird sang jolly, rollicking songs with words to them--just as a
person who had been carefully trained might do. The songs were
entertaining and Ervic enjoyed listening to them. In an hour or so the
bird stopped singing, tucked its head under its wing and went to sleep.
Reera continued knitting but seemed thoughtful.

Now Ervic had marked this cupboard drawer well and had concluded that
Reera took something from it which enabled her to perform her
transformations. He thought that if he managed to remain in the
cottage, and Reera fell asleep, he could slyly open the cupboard, take
a portion of whatever was in the drawer, and by dropping it into the
copper kettle transform the three fishes into their natural shapes.
Indeed, he had firmly resolved to carry out this plan when the
Yookoohoo put down her knitting and walked toward the door.

"I'm going out for a few minutes," said she; "do you wish to go with
me, or will you remain here?"

Ervic did not answer but sat quietly on his bench. So Reera went out
and closed the cottage door.

As soon as she was gone, Ervic rose and tiptoed to the cupboard.

"Take care! Take care!" cried several voices, coming from the kittens
and chipmunks. "If you touch anything we'll tell the Yookoohoo!"

Ervic hesitated a moment but, remembering that he need not consider
Reera's anger if he succeeded in transforming the fishes, he was about
to open the cupboard when he was arrested by the voices of the fishes,
which stuck their heads above the water in the kettle and called out:

"Come here, Ervic!"

So he went back to the kettle and bent over it

"Let the cupboard alone," said the goldfish to him earnestly. "You
could not succeed by getting that magic powder, for only the Yookoohoo
knows how to use it. The best way is to allow her to transform us into
three girls, for then we will have our natural shapes and be able to
perform all the Arts of Magic we have learned and well understand. You
are acting wisely and in the most effective manner. We did not know you
were so intelligent, or that Reera could be so easily deceived by you.
Continue as you have begun and try to persuade her to transform us. But
insist that we be given the forms of girls."

The goldfish ducked its head down just as Reera re-entered the cottage.
She saw Ervic bent over the kettle, so she came and joined him.

"Can your fishes talk?" she asked.

"Sometimes," he replied, "for all fishes in the Land of Oz know how to
speak. Just now they were asking me for some bread. They are hungry."

"Well, they can have some bread," said Reera. "But it is nearly
supper-time, and if you would allow me to transform your fishes into
girls they could join us at the table and have plenty of food much
nicer than crumbs. Why not let me transform them?"

"Well," said Ervic, as if hesitating, "ask the fishes. If they consent,
why--why, then, I'll think it over."

Reera bent over the kettle and asked:

"Can you hear me, little fishes?"

All three popped their heads above water.

"We can hear you," said the bronzefish.

"I want to give you other forms, such as rabbits, or turtles or girls,
or something; but your master, the surly Skeezer, does not wish me to.
However, he has agreed to the plan if you will consent."

"We'd like to be girls," said the silverfish.

"No, no!" exclaimed Ervic.

"If you promise to make us three beautiful girls, we will consent,"
said the goldfish.

"No, no!" exclaimed Ervic again.

"Also make us Adepts at Magic," added the bronzefish.

"I don't know exactly what that means," replied Reera musingly, "but as
no Adept at Magic is as powerful as Yookoohoo, I'll add that to the
transformation."

"We won't try to harm you, or to interfere with your magic in any way,"
promised the goldfish. "On the contrary, we will be your friends."

"Will you agree to go away and leave me alone in my cottage, whenever I
command you to do so?" asked Reera.

"We promise that," cried the three fishes.

"Don't do it! Don't consent to the transformation," urged Ervic.

"They have already consented," said the Yookoohoo, laughing in his
face, "and you have promised me to abide by their decision. So, friend
Skeezer, I shall perform the transformation whether you like it or not."

Ervic seated himself on the bench again, a deep scowl on his face but
joy in his heart. Reera moved over to the cupboard, took something from
the drawer and returned to the copper kettle. She was clutching
something tightly in her right hand, but with her left she reached
within the kettle, took out the three fishes and laid them carefully on
the floor, where they gasped in distress at being out of water.

Reera did not keep them in misery more than a few seconds, for she
touched each one with her right hand and instantly the fishes were
transformed into three tall and slender young women, with fine,
intelligent faces and clothed in handsome, clinging gowns. The one who
had been a goldfish had beautiful golden hair and blue eyes and was
exceedingly fair of skin; the one who had been a bronzefish had dark
brown hair and clear gray eyes and her complexion matched these lovely
features. The one who had been a silverfish had snow-white hair of the
finest texture and deep brown eyes. The hair contrasted exquisitely
with her pink cheeks and ruby-red lips, nor did it make her look a day
older than her two companions.

As soon as they secured these girlish shapes, all three bowed low to
the Yookoohoo and said:

"We thank you, Reera."

Then they bowed to the Skeezer and said:

"We thank you, Ervic."

"Very good!" cried the Yookoohoo, examining her work with critical
approval. "You are much better and more interesting than fishes, and
this ungracious Skeezer would scarcely allow me to do the
transformations. You surely have nothing to thank him for. But now let
us dine in honor of the occasion."

She clapped her hands together and again a table loaded with food
appeared in the cottage. It was a longer table, this time, and places
were set for the three Adepts as well as for Reera and Ervic.

"Sit down, friends, and eat your fill," said the Yookoohoo, but instead
of seating herself at the head of the table she went to the cupboard,
saying to the Adepts: "Your beauty and grace, my fair friends, quite
outshine my own. So that I may appear properly at the banquet table I
intend, in honor of this occasion, to take upon myself my natural
shape."

Scarcely had she finished this speech when Reera transformed herself
into a young woman fully as lovely as the three Adepts. She was not
quite so tall as they, but her form was more rounded and more
handsomely clothed, with a wonderful jeweled girdle and a necklace of
shining pearls. Her hair was a bright auburn red, and her eyes large
and dark.

"Do you claim this is your natural form?" asked Ervic of the Yookoohoo.

"Yes," she replied. "This is the only form I am really entitled to
wear. But I seldom assume it because there is no one here to admire or
appreciate it and I get tired admiring it myself."

"I see now why you are named Reera the Red," remarked Ervic.

"It is on account of my red hair," she explained smiling. "I do not
care for red hair myself, which is one reason I usually wear other
forms."

"It is beautiful," asserted the young man; and then remembering the
other women present he added: "But, of course, all women should not
have red hair, because that would make it too common. Gold and silver
and brown hair are equally handsome."

The smiles that he saw interchanged between the four filled the poor
Skeezer with embarrassment, so he fell silent and attended to eating
his supper, leaving the others to do the talking. The three Adepts
frankly told Reera who they were, how they became fishes and how they
had planned secretly to induce the Yookoohoo to transform them. They
admitted that they had feared, had they asked her to help, that she
would have refused them.

"You were quite right," returned the Yookoohoo. "I make it my rule
never to perform magic to assist others, for if I did there would
always be crowd at my cottage demanding help and I hate crowds and want
to be left alone."

"However, now that you are restored to your proper shapes, I do not
regret my action and I hope you will be of use in saving the Skeezer
people by raising their island to the surface of the lake, where it
really belongs. But you must promise me that after you go away you will
never come here again, nor tell anyone what I have done for you."

The three Adepts and Ervic thanked the Yookoohoo warmly. They promised
to remember her wish that they should not come to her cottage again and
so, with a good-bye, took their departure.




Chapter Twenty

A Puzzling Problem


Glinda the Good, having decided to try her sorcery upon the abandoned
submarine, so that it would obey her commands, asked all of her party,
including the Skeezers, to withdraw from the shore of the take to the
line of palm trees. She kept with her only the little Wizard of Oz, who
was her pupil and knew how to assist her in her magic rites. When they
two were alone beside the stranded boat, Glinda said to the Wizard:

"I shall first try my magic recipe No. 1163, which is intended to make
inanimate objects move at my command. Have you a skeropythrope with
you?"

"Yes, I always carry one in my bag," replied the Wizard. He opened his
black bag of magic tools and took out a brightly polished
skeropythrope, which he handed to the Sorceress. Glinda had also
brought a small wicker bag, containing various requirements of sorcery,
and from this she took a parcel of powder and a vial of liquid. She
poured the liquid into the skeropythrope and added the powder. At once
the skeropythrope began to sputter and emit sparks of a violet color,
which spread in all directions. The Sorceress instantly stepped into
the middle of the boat and held the instrument so that the sparks fell
all around her and covered every bit of the blackened steel boat. At
the same time Glinda crooned a weird incantation in the language of
sorcery, her voice sounding low and musical.

After a little the violet sparks ceased, and those that had fallen upon
the boat had disappeared and left no mark upon its surface. The
ceremony was ended and Glinda returned the skeropythrope to the Wizard,
who put it away in his black bag.

"That ought to do the business all right," he said confidently.

"Let us make a trial and see," she replied.

So they both entered the boat and seated themselves.

Speaking in a tone of command the Sorceress said to the boat: "Carry us
across the lake, to the farther shore."

At once the boat backed off the sandy beach, turned its prow and moved
swiftly over the water.

"Very good--very good indeed!" cried the Wizard, when the boat slowed
up at the shore opposite from that whence they had departed. "Even
Coo-ee-oh, with all her witchcraft, could do no better."

The Sorceress now said to the boat:

"Close up, submerge and carry us to the basement door of the sunken
island--the door from which you emerged at the command of Queen
Coo-ee-oh."

The boat obeyed. As it sank into the water the top sections rose from
the sides and joined together over the heads of Glinda and the Wizard,
who were thus enclosed in a water-proof chamber. There were four glass
windows in this covering, one on each side and one on either end, so
that the passengers could see exactly where they were going. Moving
under water more slowly than on the surface, the submarine gradually
approached the island and halted with its bow pressed against the huge
marble door in the basement under the Dome. This door was tightly
closed and it was evident to both Glinda and the Wizard that it would
not open to admit the underwater boat unless a magic word was spoken by
them or someone from within the basement of the island. But what was
this magic word?  Neither of them knew.

"I'm afraid," said the Wizard regretfully, "that we can't get in, after
all. Unless your sorcery can discover the word to open the marble door."

"That is probably some word only known to Coo-ce-oh," replied the
Sorceress. "I may be able to discover what it is, but that will require
time. Let us go back again to our companions."

"It seems a shame, after we have made the boat obey us, to be balked by
just a marble door," grumbled the Wizard.

At Glinda's command the boat rose until it was on a level with the
glass dome that covered the Skeezer village, when the Sorceress made it
slowly circle all around the Great Dome.

Many faces were pressed against the glass from the inside, eagerly
watching the submarine, and in one place were Dorothy and Ozma, who
quickly recognized Glinda and the Wizard through the glass windows of
the boat. Glinda saw them, too, and held the boat close to the Dome
while the friends exchanged greetings in pantomime. Their voices,
unfortunately, could not be heard through the Dome and the water and
the side of the boat. The Wizard tried to make the girls understand,
through signs, that he and Glinda had come to their rescue, and Ozma
and Dorothy understood this from the very fact that the Sorceress and
the Wizard had appeared. The two girl prisoners were smiling and in
safety, and knowing this Glinda felt she could take all the time
necessary in order to effect their final rescue.

As nothing more could be done just then, Glinda ordered the boat to
return to shore and it obeyed readily. First it ascended to the surface
of the water, then the roof parted and fell into the slots at the side
of the boat, and then the magic craft quickly made the shore and
beached itself on the sands at the very spot from which it had departed
at Glinda's command. All the Oz people and the Skeezers at once ran to
the boat to ask if they had reached the island, and whether they had
seen Ozma and Dorothy. The Wizard told them of the obstacle they had
met in the way of a marble door, and how Glinda would now undertake to
find a magic way to conquer the door.

Realizing that it would require several days to succeed in reaching the
island raising it and liberating their friends and the Skeezer people,
Glinda now prepared a camp half way between the lake shore and the palm
trees.

The Wizard's wizardry made a number of tents appear and the sorcery of
the Sorceress furnished these tents all complete, with beds, chairs,
tables, flags, lamps and even books with which to pass idle hours. All
the tents had the Royal Banner of Oz flying from the centerpoles and
one big tent, not now occupied, had Ozma's own banner moving in the
breeze.

Betsy and Trot had a tent to themselves, and Button Bright and Ojo had
another. The Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman paired together in one tent
and so did Jack Pumpkinhead and the Shaggy Man, Cap'n Bill and Uncle
Henry, Tik-Tok and Professor Wogglebug. Glinda had the most splendid
tent of all, except that reserved for Ozma, while the Wizard had a
little one of his own. Whenever it was meal time, tables loaded with
food magically appeared in the tents of those who were in the habit of
eating, and these complete arrangements made the rescue party just
comfortable as they would have been in their own homes.

Far into the night Glinda sat in her tent studying a roll of mystic
scrolls in search of a word that would open the basement door of the
island and admit her to the Great Dome. She also made many magical
experiments, hoping to discover something that would aid her. Yet the
morning found the powerful Sorceress still unsuccessful.

Glinda's art could have opened any ordinary door, you may be sure, but
you must realize that this marble door of the island had been commanded
not to open save in obedience to one magic word, and therefore all
other magic words could have no effect upon it. The magic word that
guarded the door had probably been invented by Coo-ee-oh, who had now
forgotten it. The only way, then, to gain entrance to the sunken island
was to break the charm that held the door fast shut. If this could be
done no magic would be required to open it.

The next day the Sorceress and the Wizard again entered the boat and
made it submerge and go to the marble door, which they tried in various
ways to open, but without success.

"We shall have to abandon this attempt, I think," said Glinda. "The
easiest way to raise the island would be for us to gain admittance to
the Dome and then descend to the basement and see in what manner
Coo-ee-oh made the entire island sink or rise at her command. It
naturally occurred to me that the easiest way to gain admittance would
be by having the boat take us into the basement through the marble door
from which Coo-ee-oh launched it. But there must be other ways to get
inside the Dome and join Ozma and Dorothy, and such ways we must find
by study and the proper use of our powers of magic."

"It won't be easy," declared the Wizard, "for we must not forget that
Ozma herself understands considerable magic, and has doubtless tried to
raise the island or find other means of escape from it and failed."

"That is true," returned Glinda, "but Ozma's magic is fairy magic,
while you are a Wizard and I am a Sorceress. In this way the three of
us have a great variety of magic to work with, and if we should all
fail it will be because the island is raised and lowered by a magic
power none of us is acquainted with. My idea therefore is to seek--by
such magic as we possess--to accomplish our object in another way."

They made the circle of the Dome again in their boat, and once more saw
Ozma and Dorothy through their windows and exchanged signals with the
two imprisoned girls.

Ozma realized that her friends were doing all in their power to rescue
her and smiled an encouragement to their efforts. Dorothy seemed a
little anxious but was trying to be as brave as her companion.

After the boat had returned to the camp and Glinda was seated in her
tent, working out various ways by which Ozma and Dorothy could be
rescued, the Wizard stood on the shore dreamily eying the outlines of
the Great Dome which showed beneath the clear water, when he raised his
eyes and saw a group of strange people approaching from around the
lake. Three were young women of stately presence, very beautifully
dressed, who moved with remarkable grace. They were followed at a
little distance by a good-looking young Skeezer.

The Wizard saw at a glance that these people might be very important,
so he advanced to meet them. The three maidens received him graciously
and the one with the golden hair said:

"I believe you are the famous Wizard of Oz, of whom I have often heard.
We are seeking Glinda, the Sorceress, and perhaps you can lead us to
her."

"I can, and will, right gladly," answered the Wizard. "Follow me,
please."

The little Wizard was puzzled as to the identity of the three lovely
visitors but he gave no sign that might embarrass them.

He understood they did not wish to be questioned, and so he made no
remarks as he led the way to Glinda's tent.

With a courtly bow the Wizard ushered the three visitors into the
gracious presence of Glinda, the Good.




Chapter Twenty-One

The Three Adepts


The Sorceress looked up from her work as the three maidens entered, and
something in their appearance and manner led her to rise and bow to
them in her most dignified manner. The three knelt an instant before
the great Sorceress and then stood upright and waited for her to speak.

"Whoever you may be," said Glinda, "I bid you welcome."

"My name is Audah," said one.

"My name is Aurah," said another.

"My name is Aujah," said the third.

Glinda had never heard these names before, but looking closely at the
three she asked:

"Are you witches or workers in magic?"

"Some of the secret arts we have gleaned from Nature," replied the
brownhaired maiden modestly, "but we do not place our skill beside that
of the Great Sorceress, Glinda the Good."

"I suppose you are aware it is unlawful to practice magic in the Land
of Oz, without the permission of our Ruler, Princess Ozma?"

"No, we were not aware of that," was the reply.  "We have heard of
Ozma, who is the appointed Ruler of all this great fairyland, but her
laws have not reached us, as yet."

Glinda studied the strange maidens thoughtfully; then she said to them:

"Princess Ozma is even now imprisoned in the Skeezer village, for the
whole island with its Great Dome, was sunk to the bottom of the lake by
the witchcraft of Coo-ee-oh, whom the Flathead Su-dic transformed into
a silly swan. I am seeking some way to overcome Coo-ee-oh's magic and
raise the isle to the surface again. Can you help me do this?"

The maidens exchanged glances, and the white-haired one replied:

"We do not know; but we will try to assist you."

"It seems," continued Glinda musingly, "that Coo-ee-oh derived most of
her witchcraft from three Adepts at Magic, who at one time ruled the
Flatheads. While the Adepts were being entertained by Coo-ee-oh at a
banquet in her palace, she cruelly betrayed them and after transforming
them into fishes cast them into the lake.

"If I could find these three fishes and return them to their natural
shapes--they might know what magic Coo-ee-oh used to sink the island. I
was about to go to the shore and call these fishes to me when you
arrived. So, if you will join me, we will try to find them."

The maidens exchanged smiles now, and the golden-haired one, Audah,
said to Glinda:

"It will not be necessary to go to the lake. We are the three fishes."

"Indeed!" cried Glinda. "Then you are the three Adepts at Magic,
restored to your proper forms?"

"We are the three Adepts," admitted Aujah.

"Then," said Glinda, "my task is half accomplished. But who destroyed
the transformation that made you fishes?"

"We have promised not to tell," answered Aurah; "but this young Skeezer
was largely responsible for our release; he is brave and clever, and we
owe him our gratitude."

Glinda looked at Ervic, who stood modestly behind the Adepts, hat in
hand. "He shall be properly rewarded," she declared, "for in helping
you he has helped us all, and perhaps saved his people from being
imprisoned forever in the sunken isle."

The Sorceress now asked her guests to seat themselves and a long talk
followed, in which the Wizard of Oz shared.

"We are quite certain," said Aurah, "that if we could get inside the
Dome we could discover Coo-ee-oh's secrets, for in all her work, after
we became fishes, she used the formulas and incantations and arts that
she stole from us. She may have added to these things, but they were
the foundation of all her work."

"What means do you suggest for our getting into the Dome?" inquired
Glinda.

The three Adepts hesitated to reply, for they had not yet considered
what could be done to reach the inside of the Great Dome. While they
were in deep thought, and Glinda and the Wizard were quietly awaiting
their suggestions, into the tent rushed Trot and Betsy, dragging
between them the Patchwork Girl.

"Oh, Glinda," cried Trot, "Scraps has thought of a way to rescue Ozma
and Dorothy and all of the Skeezers."

The three Adepts could not avoid laughing merrily, for not only were
they amused by the queer form of the Patchwork Girl, but Trot's
enthusiastic speech struck them as really funny. If the Great Sorceress
and the famous Wizard and the three talented Adepts at Magic were
unable as yet to solve the important problem of the sunken isle, there
was little chance for a patched girl stuffed with cotton to succeed.

But Glinda, smiling indulgently at the earnest faces turned toward her,
patted the children's heads and said:

"Scraps is very clever. Tell us what she has thought of, my dear."

"Well," said Trot, "Scraps says that if you could dry up all the water
in the lake the island would be on dry land, an' everyone could come
and go whenever they liked."

Glinda smiled again, but the Wizard said to the girls:

"If we should dry up the lake, what would become of all the beautiful
fishes that now live in the water?"

"Dear me! That's so," admitted Betsy, crestfallen; "we never thought of
that, did we Trot?"

"Couldn't you transform 'em into polliwogs?" asked Scraps, turning a
somersault and then standing on one leg. "You could give them a little,
teeny pond to swim in, and they'd be just as happy as they are as
fishes."

"No indeed!" replied the Wizard, severely. "It is wicked to transform
any living creatures without their consent, and the lake is the home of
the fishes and belongs to them."

"All right," said Scraps, making a face at him; "I don't care."

"It's too bad," sighed Trot, "for I thought we'd struck a splendid
idea."

"So you did," declared Glinda, her face now grave and thoughtful.
"There is something in the Patchwork Girl's idea that may be of real
value to us."

"I think so, too," agreed the golden-haired Adept. "The top of the
Great Dome is only a few feet below the surface of the water. If we
could reduce the level of the lake until the Dome sticks a little above
the water, we could remove some of the glass and let ourselves down
into the village by means of ropes."

"And there would be plenty of water left for the fishes to swim in,"
added the white-haired maiden.

"If we succeed in raising the island we could fill up the lake again,"
suggested the brown-haired Adept.

"I believe," said the Wizard, rubbing his hands together in delight,
"that the Patchwork Girl has shown us the way to success."

The girls were looking curiously at the three beautiful Adepts,
wondering who they were, so Glinda introduced them to Trot and Betsy
and Scraps, and then sent the children away while she considered how to
carry the new idea into effect.

Not much could be done that night, so the Wizard prepared another tent
for the Adepts, and in the evening Glinda held a reception and invited
all her followers to meet the new arrivals. The Adepts were greatly
astonished at the extraordinary personages presented to them, and
marveled that Jack Pumpkinhead and the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman
and Tik-Tok could really live and think and talk just like other
people. They were especially pleased with the lively Patchwork Girl and
loved to watch her antics.

It was quite a pleasant party, for Glinda served some dainty
refreshments to those who could eat, and the Scarecrow recited some
poems, and the Cowardly Lion sang a song in his deep bass voice. The
only thing that marred their joy was the thought that their beloved
Ozma and dear little Dorothy were yet confined in the Great Dome of the
Sunken island.




Chapter Twenty-Two

The Sunken Island


As soon as they had breakfasted the next morning, Glinda and the Wizard
and the three Adepts went down to the shore of the lake and formed a
line with their faces toward the submerged island. All the others came
to watch them, but stood at a respectful distance in the background.

At the right of the Sorceress stood Audah and Aurah, while at the left
stood the Wizard and Aujah. Together they stretched their arms over the
water's edge and in unison the five chanted a rhythmic incantation.

This chant they repeated again and again, swaying their arms gently
from side to side, and in a few minutes the watchers behind them
noticed that the lake had begun to recede from the shore. Before long
the highest point of the dome appeared above the water. Gradually the
water fell, making the dome appear to rise. When it was three or four
feet above the surface Glinda gave the signal to stop, for their work
had been accomplished.

The blackened submarine was now entirely out of water, but Uncle Henry
and Cap'n Bill managed to push it into the lake. Glinda, the Wizard,
Ervic and the Adepts got into the boat, taking with them a coil of
strong rope, and at the command of the Sorceress the craft cleaved its
way through the water toward the part of the Dome which was now visible.

"There's still plenty of water for the fish to swim in," observed the
Wizard as they rode along. "They might like more but I'm sure they can
get along until we have raised the island and can fill up the lake
again."

The boat touched gently on the sloping glass of the Dome, and the
Wizard took some tools from his black bag and quickly removed one large
pane of glass, thus making a hole large enough for their bodies to pass
through. Stout frames of steel supported the glass of the Dome, and
around one of these frames the Wizard tied the end of a rope.

"I'll go down first," said he, "for while I'm not as spry as Cap'n Bill
I'm sure I can manage it easily.  Are you sure the rope is long enough
to reach the bottom?"

"Quite sure," replied the Sorceress.

So the Wizard let down the rope and climbing through the opening
lowered himself down, hand over hand, clinging to the rope with his
legs and feet. Below in the streets of the village were gathered all
the Skeezers, men, women and children, and you may be sure that Ozma
and Dorothy, with Lady Aurex, were filled with joy that their friends
were at last coming to their rescue.

The Queen's palace, now occupied by Ozma, was directly in the center of
the Dome, so that when the rope was let down the end of it came just in
front of the palace entrance. Several Skeezers held fast to the rope's
end to steady it and the Wizard reached the ground in safety. He hugged
first Ozma and then Dorothy, while all the Skeezers cheered as loud as
they could.

The Wizard now discovered that the rope was long enough to reach from
the top of the Dome to the ground when doubled, so he tied a chair to
one end of the rope and called to Glinda to sit in the chair while he
and some of the Skeezers lowered her to the pavement. In this way the
Sorceress reached the ground quite comfortably and the three Adepts and
Ervic soon followed her.

The Skeezers quickly recognized the three Adepts at Magic, whom they
had learned to respect before their wicked Queen betrayed them, and
welcomed them as friends. All the inhabitants of the village had been
greatly frightened by their imprisonment under water, but now realized
that an attempt was to be made to rescue them.

Glinda, the Wizard and the Adepts followed Ozma and Dorothy into the
palace, and they asked Lady Aurex and Ervic to join them. After Ozma
had told of her adventures in trying to prevent war between the
Flatheads and the Skeezers, and Glinda had told all about the Rescue
Expedition and the restoration of the three Adepts by the help of
Ervic, a serious consultation was held as to how the island could be
made to rise.

"I've tried every way in my power," said Ozma, "but Coo-ee-oh used a
very unusual sort of magic which I do not understand. She seems to have
prepared her witchcraft in such a way that a spoken word is necessary
to accomplish her designs, and these spoken words are known only to
herself."

"That is a method we taught her," declared Aurah the Adept.

"I can do no more, Glinda," continued Ozma, "so I wish you would try
what your sorcery can accomplish."

"First, then," said Glinda, "let us visit the basement of the island,
which I am told is underneath the village."

A flight of marble stairs led from one of Coo-ee-oh's private rooms
down to the basement, but when the party arrived all were puzzled by
what they saw. In the center of a broad, low room, stood a mass of
great cog-wheels, chains and pulleys, all interlocked and seeming to
form a huge machine; but there was no engine or other motive power to
make the wheels turn.

"This, I suppose, is the means by which the island is lowered or
raised," said Ozma, "but the magic word which is needed to move the
machinery is unknown to us."

The three Adepts were carefully examining the mass of wheels, and soon
the golden-haired one said:

"These wheels do not control the island at all. On the contrary, one
set of them is used to open the doors of the little rooms where the
submarines are kept, as may be seen from the chains and pulleys used.
Each boat is kept in a little room with two doors, one to the basement
room where we are now and the other letting into the lake.

"When Coo-ee-oh used the boat in which she attacked the Flatheads, she
first commanded the basement door to open and with her followers she
got into the boat and made the top close over them. Then the basement
door being closed, the outer door was slowly opened, letting the water
fill the room to float the boat, which then left the island, keeping
under water."

"But how could she expect to get back again?" asked the Wizard.

"Why the boat would enter the room filled with water and after the
outer door was closed a word of command started a pump which pumped all
the water from the room. Then the boat would open and Coo-ee-oh could
enter the basement."

"I see," said the Wizard. "It is a clever contrivance, but won't work
unless one knows the magic words."

"Another part of this machinery," explained the white-haired Adept, "is
used to extend the bridge from the island to the mainland. The steel
bridge is in a room much like that in which the boats are kept, and at
Coo-ce-oh's command it would reach out, joint by joint, until its far
end touched the shore of the lake. The same magic command would make
the bridge return to its former position. Of course the bridge could
not be used unless the island was on the surface of the water."

"But how do you suppose Coo-ee-oh managed to sink the island, and make
it rise again?" inquired Glinda.

This the Adepts could not yet explain. As nothing more could be learned
from the basement they mounted the steps to the Queen's private suite
again, and Ozma showed them to a special room where Coo-ee-oh kept her
magical instruments and performed all her arts of witchcraft.




Chapter Twenty-Three

The Magic Words


Many interesting things were to be seen in the Room of Magic, including
much that had been stolen from the Adepts when they were transformed to
fishes, but they had to admit that Coo-ee-oh had a rare genius for
mechanics, and had used her knowledge in inventing a lot of mechanical
apparatus that ordinary witches, wizards and sorcerers could not
understand.

They all carefully inspected this room, taking care to examine every
article they came across.

"The island," said Glinda thoughtfully, "rests on a base of solid
marble. When it is submerged, as it is now, the base of the island is
upon the bottom of the lake. What puzzles me is how such a great weight
can be lifted and suspended in the water, even by magic."

"I now remember," returned Aujah, "that one of the arts we taught
Coo-ee-oh was the way to expand steel, and I think that explains how
the island is raised and lowered. I noticed in the basement a big steel
pillar that passed through the floor and extended upward to this
palace. Perhaps the end of it is concealed in this very room. If the
lower end of the steel pillar is firmly embedded in the bottom of the
lake, Coo-ee-oh could utter a magic word that would make the pillar
expand, and so lift the entire island to the level of the water."

"I've found the end of the steel pillar. It's just here," announced the
Wizard, pointing to one side of the room where a great basin of
polished steel seemed to have been set upon the floor.

They all gathered around, and Ozma said:

"Yes, I am quite sure that is the upper end of the pillar that supports
the island. I noticed it when I first came here. It has been hollowed
out, you see, and something has been burned in the basin, for the fire
has left its marks. I wondered what was under the great basin and got
several of the Skeezers to come up here and try to lift it for me. They
were strong men, but could not move it at all."

"It seems to me," said Audah the Adept, "that we have discovered the
manner in which Coo-ee-oh raised the island. She would burn some sort
of magic powder in the basin, utter the magic word, and the pillar
would lengthen out and lift the island with it."

"What's this?" asked Dorothy, who had been searching around with the
others, and now noticed a slight hollow in the wall, near to where the
steel basin stood. As she spoke Dorothy pushed her thumb into the
hollow and instantly a small drawer popped out from the wall.

The three Adepts, Glinda and the Wizard sprang forward and peered into
the drawer. It was half filled with a grayish powder, the tiny grains
of which constantly moved as if impelled by some living force.

"It may be some kind of radium," said the Wizard.

"No," replied Glinda, "it is more wonderful than even radium, for I
recognize it as a rare mineral powder called Gaulau by the sorcerers. I
wonder how Coo-ee-oh discovered it and where she obtained it."

"There is no doubt," said Aujah the Adept, "that this is the magic
powder Coo-ee-oh burned in the basin. If only we knew the magic word, I
am quite sure we could raise the island."

"How can we discover the magic word?" asked Ozma, turning to Glinda as
she spoke.

"That we must now seriously consider," answered the Sorceress.

So all of them sat down in the Room of Magic and began to think. It was
so still that after a while Dorothy grew nervous. The little girl never
could keep silent for long, and at the risk of displeasing her
magic-working friends she suddenly said:

"Well, Coo-ee-oh used just three magic words, one to make the bridge
work, and one to make the submarines go out of their holes, and one to
raise and lower the island. Three words. And Coo-ee-oh's name is made
up of just three words. One is 'Coo,' and one is 'ee,' and one is 'oh.'"

The Wizard frowned but Glinda looked wonderingly at the young girl and
Ozma cried out:

"A good thought, Dorothy dear! You may have solved our problem."

"I believe it is worth a trial," agreed Glinda. "It would be quite
natural for Coo-ee-oh to divide her name into three magic syllables,
and Dorothy's suggestion seems like an inspiration."

The three Adepts also approved the trial but the brown-haired one said:

"We must be careful not to use the wrong word, and send the bridge out
under water. The main thing, if Dorothy's idea is correct, is to hit
upon the one word that moves the island."

"Let us experiment," suggested the Wizard.

In the drawer with the moving gray powder was a tiny golden cup, which
they thought was used for measuring. Glinda filled this cup with the
powder and carefully poured it into the shallow basin, which was the
top of the great steel pillar supporting the island. Then Aurah the
Adept lighted a taper and touched it to the powder, which instantly
glowed fiery red and tumbled about the basin with astonishing energy.
While the grains of powder still glowed red the Sorceress bent over it
and said in a voice of command: "Coo!"

They waited motionless to see what would happen. There was a grating
noise and a whirl of machinery, but the island did not move a particle.

Dorothy rushed to the window, which overlooked the glass side of the
dome.

"The boats!" she exclaimed. "The boats are all loose an' sailing under
water."

"We've made a mistake," said the Wizard gloomily.

"But it's one which shows we are on the right track," declared Aujah
the Adept. "We know now that Coo-ee-oh used the syllables of her name
for the magic words."

"If 'Coo' sends out the boats, it is probable that ee' works the
bridge," suggested Ozma. "So the last part of the name may raise the
island."

"Let us try that next then," proposed the Wizard.

He scraped the embers of the burned powder out of the basin and Glinda
again filled the golden cup from the drawer and placed it on top the
steel pillar. Aurah lighted it with her taper and Ozma bent over the
basin and murmured the long drawn syllable: "Oh-h-h!"

Instantly the island trembled and with a weird groaning noise it moved
upward--slowly, very slowly, but with a steady motion, while all the
company stood by in awed silence. It was a wonderful thing, even to
those skilled in the arts of magic, wizardry and sorcery, to realize
that a single word could raise that great, heavy island, with its
immense glass Dome.

"Why, we're way above the lake now!" exclaimed Dorothy from the window,
when at last the island ceased to move.

"That is because we lowered the level of the water," explained Glinda.

They could hear the Skeezers cheering lustily in the streets of the
village as they realized that they were saved.

"Come," said Ozma eagerly, "let us go down and join the people."

"Not just yet," returned Glinda, a happy smile upon her lovely face,
for she was overjoyed at their success. "First let us extend the bridge
to the mainland, where our friends from the Emerald City are waiting."

It didn't take long to put more powder in the basin, light it and utter
the syllable "EE!" The result was that a door in the basement opened
and the steel bridge moved out, extended itself joint by joint, and
finally rested its far end on the shore of the lake just in front of
the encampment.

"Now," said Glinda, "we can go up and receive the congratulations of
the Skeezers and of our friends of the Rescue Expedition."

Across the water, on the shore of the lake, the Patchwork Girl was
waving them a welcome.




Chapter Twenty-Four

Glinda's Triumph


Of course all those who had joined Glinda's expedition at once crossed
the bridge to the island, where they were warmly welcomed by the
Skeezers. Before all the concourse of people Princess Ozma made a
speech from a porch of the palace and demanded that they recognize her
as their lawful Ruler and promise to obey the laws of the Land of Oz.
In return she agreed to protect them from all future harm and declared
they would no longer be subjected to cruelty and abuse.

This pleased the Skeezers greatly, and when Ozma told them they might
elect a Queen to rule over them, who in turn would be subject to Ozma
of Oz, they voted for Lady Aurex, and that same day the ceremony of
crowning the new Queen was held and Aurex was installed as mistress of
the palace.

For her Prime Minister the Queen selected Ervic, for the three Adepts
had told of his good judgment, faithfulness and cleverness, and all the
Skeezers approved the appointment.

Glinda, the Wizard and the Adepts stood on the bridge and recited an
incantation that quite filled the lake with water again, and the
Scarecrow and the Patchwork Girl climbed to the top of the Great Dome
and replaced the pane of glass that had been removed to allow Glinda
and her followers to enter.

When evening came Ozma ordered a great feast prepared, to which every
Skeezer was invited. The village was beautifully decorated and
brilliantly lighted and there was music and dancing until a late hour
to celebrate the liberation of the people. For the Skeezers had been
freed, not only from the water of the lake but from the cruelty of
their former Queen.

As the people from the Emerald City prepared the next morning to depart
Queen Aurex said to Ozma:

"There is only one thing I now fear for my people, and that is the
enmity of the terrible Su-dic of the Flatheads. He is liable to come
here at any time and try to annoy us, and my Skeezers are peaceful
folks and unable to fight the wild and wilful Flatheads."

"Do not worry," returned Ozma, reassuringly. "We intend to stop on our
way at the Flatheads' Enchanted Mountain and punish the Su-dic for his
misdeeds."

That satisfied Aurex and when Ozma and her followers trooped over the
bridge to the shore, having taken leave of their friends, all the
Skeezers cheered them and waved their hats and handkerchiefs, and the
band played and the departure was indeed a ceremony long to be
remembered.

The three Adepts at Magic, who had formerly ruled the Flatheads wisely
and considerately, went with Princess Ozma and her people, for they had
promised Ozma to stay on the mountain and again see that the laws were
enforced.

Glinda had been told all about the curious Flatheads and she had
consulted with the Wizard and formed a plan to render them more
intelligent and agreeable.

When the party reached the mountain Ozma and Dorothy showed them how to
pass around the invisible wall--which had been built by the Flatheads
after the Adepts were transformed--and how to gain the up-and-down
stairway that led to the mountain top.

The Su-dic had watched the approach of the party from the edge of the
mountain and was frightened when he saw that the three Adepts had
recovered their natural forms and were coming back to their former
home. He realized that his power would soon be gone and yet he
determined to fight to the last. He called all the Flatheads together
and armed them, and told them to arrest all who came up the stairway
and hurl them over the edge of the mountain to the plain below. But
although they feared the Supreme Dictator, who had threatened to punish
them if they did not obey his commands, as soon as they saw the three
Adepts they threw down their arms and begged their former rulers to
protect them.

The three Adepts assured the excited Flatheads that they had nothing to
fear.

Seeing that his people had rebelled the Su-dic ran away and tried to
hide, but the Adepts found him and had him cast into a prison, all his
cans of brains being taken away from him.

After this easy conquest of the Su-dic, Glinda told the Adepts of her
plan, which had already been approved by Ozma of Oz, and they joyfully
agreed to it. So, during the next few days, the great Sorceress
transformed, in a way, every Flathead on the mountain.

Taking them one at a time, she had the can of brains that belonged to
each one opened and the contents spread on the flat head, after which,
by means of her arts of sorcery, she caused the head to grow over the
brains--in the manner most people wear them--and they were thus
rendered as intelligent and good looking as any of the other
inhabitants of the Land of Oz.

When all had been treated in this manner there were no more Flatheads
at all, and the Adepts decided to name their people Mountaineers. One
good result of Glinda's sorcery was that no one could now be deprived
of the brains that belonged to him and each person had exactly the
share he was entitled to.

Even the Su-dic was given his portion of brains and his flat head made
round, like the others, but he was deprived of all power to work
further mischief, and with the Adepts constantly watching him he would
be forced to become obedient and humble.

The Golden Pig, which ran grunting about the streets, with no brains at
all, was disenchanted by Glinda, and in her woman's form was given
brains and a round head. This wife of the Su-dic had once been even
more wicked than her evil husband, but she had now forgotten all her
wickedness and was likely to be a good woman thereafter.

These things being accomplished in a satisfactory manner, Princess Ozma
and her people bade farewell to the three Adepts and departed for the
Emerald City, well pleased with their interesting adventures.

They returned by the road over which Ozma and Dorothy had come,
stopping to get the Sawhorse and the Red Wagon where they had left them.

"I'm very glad I went to see these peoples," said Princess Ozma, "for I
not only prevented any further warfare between them, but they have been
freed from the rule of the Su-dic and Coo-ee-oh and are now happy and
loyal subjects of the Land of Oz. Which proves that it is always wise
to do one's duty, however unpleasant that duty may seem to be."







1.  The Girl in the Chicken Coop


The wind blew hard and joggled the water of the ocean, sending ripples
across its surface.  Then the wind pushed the edges of the ripples
until they became waves, and shoved the waves around until they became
billows.  The billows rolled dreadfully high: higher even than the tops
of houses.  Some of them, indeed, rolled as high as the tops of tall
trees, and seemed like mountains; and the gulfs between the great
billows were like deep valleys.

All this mad dashing and splashing of the waters of the big ocean,
which the mischievous wind caused without any good reason whatever,
resulted in a terrible storm, and a storm on the ocean is liable to cut
many queer pranks and do a lot of damage.

At the time the wind began to blow, a ship was sailing far out upon the
waters.  When the waves began to tumble and toss and to grow bigger and
bigger the ship rolled up and down, and tipped sidewise--first one way
and then the other--and was jostled around so roughly that even the
sailor-men had to hold fast to the ropes and railings to keep
themselves from being swept away by the wind or pitched headlong into
the sea.

And the clouds were so thick in the sky that the sunlight couldn't get
through them; so that the day grew dark as night, which added to the
terrors of the storm.

The Captain of the ship was not afraid, because he had seen storms
before, and had sailed his ship through them in safety; but he knew
that his passengers would be in danger if they tried to stay on deck,
so he put them all into the cabin and told them to stay there until
after the storm was over, and to keep brave hearts and not be scared,
and all would be well with them.

Now, among these passengers was a little Kansas girl named Dorothy
Gale, who was going with her Uncle Henry to Australia, to visit some
relatives they had never before seen.  Uncle Henry, you must know, was
not very well, because he had been working so hard on his Kansas farm
that his health had given way and left him weak and nervous.  So he
left Aunt Em at home to watch after the hired men and to take care of
the farm, while he traveled far away to Australia to visit his cousins
and have a good rest.

Dorothy was eager to go with him on this journey, and Uncle Henry
thought she would be good company and help cheer him up; so he decided
to take her along.  The little girl was quite an experienced traveller,
for she had once been carried by a cyclone as far away from home as the
marvelous Land of Oz, and she had met with a good many adventures in
that strange country before she managed to get back to Kansas again.
So she wasn't easily frightened, whatever happened, and when the wind
began to howl and whistle, and the waves began to tumble and toss, our
little girl didn't mind the uproar the least bit.

"Of course we'll have to stay in the cabin," she said to Uncle Henry
and the other passengers, "and keep as quiet as possible until the
storm is over.  For the Captain says if we go on deck we may be blown
overboard."

No one wanted to risk such an accident as that, you may be sure; so all
the passengers stayed huddled up in the dark cabin, listening to the
shrieking of the storm and the creaking of the masts and rigging and
trying to keep from bumping into one another when the ship tipped
sidewise.

Dorothy had almost fallen asleep when she was aroused with a start to
find that Uncle Henry was missing.  She couldn't imagine where he had
gone, and as he was not very strong she began to worry about him, and
to fear he might have been careless enough to go on deck.  In that case
he would be in great danger unless he instantly came down again.

The fact was that Uncle Henry had gone to lie down in his little
sleeping-berth, but Dorothy did not know that.  She only remembered
that Aunt Em had cautioned her to take good care of her uncle, so at
once she decided to go on deck and find him, in spite of the fact that
the tempest was now worse than ever, and the ship was plunging in a
really dreadful manner.  Indeed, the little girl found it was as much
as she could do to mount the stairs to the deck, and as soon as she got
there the wind struck her so fiercely that it almost tore away the
skirts of her dress.  Yet Dorothy felt a sort of joyous excitement in
defying the storm, and while she held fast to the railing she peered
around through the gloom and thought she saw the dim form of a man
clinging to a mast not far away from her.  This might be her uncle, so
she called as loudly as she could:

"Uncle Henry!  Uncle Henry!"

But the wind screeched and howled so madly that she scarce heard her
own voice, and the man certainly failed to hear her, for he did not
move.

Dorothy decided she must go to him; so she made a dash forward, during
a lull in the storm, to where a big square chicken-coop had been lashed
to the deck with ropes.  She reached this place in safety, but no
sooner had she seized fast hold of the slats of the big box in which
the chickens were kept than the wind, as if enraged because the little
girl dared to resist its power, suddenly redoubled its fury.  With a
scream like that of an angry giant it tore away the ropes that held the
coop and lifted it high into the air, with Dorothy still clinging to
the slats.  Around and over it whirled, this way and that, and a few
moments later the chicken-coop dropped far away into the sea, where the
big waves caught it and slid it up-hill to a foaming crest and then
down-hill into a deep valley, as if it were nothing more than a
plaything to keep them amused.

Dorothy had a good ducking, you may be sure, but she didn't lose her
presence of mind even for a second.  She kept tight hold of the stout
slats and as soon as she could get the water out of her eyes she saw
that the wind had ripped the cover from the coop, and the poor chickens
were fluttering away in every direction, being blown by the wind until
they looked like feather dusters without handles.  The bottom of the
coop was made of thick boards, so Dorothy found she was clinging to a
sort of raft, with sides of slats, which readily bore up her weight.
After coughing the water out of her throat and getting her breath
again, she managed to climb over the slats and stand upon the firm
wooden bottom of the coop, which supported her easily enough.

"Why, I've got a ship of my own!" she thought, more amused than
frightened at her sudden change of condition; and then, as the coop
climbed up to the top of a big wave, she looked eagerly around for the
ship from which she had been blown.

It was far, far away, by this time.  Perhaps no one on board had yet
missed her, or knew of her strange adventure.  Down into a valley
between the waves the coop swept her, and when she climbed another
crest the ship looked like a toy boat, it was such a long way off.
Soon it had entirely disappeared in the gloom, and then Dorothy gave a
sigh of regret at parting with Uncle Henry and began to wonder what was
going to happen to her next.

Just now she was tossing on the bosom of a big ocean, with nothing to
keep her afloat but a miserable wooden hen-coop that had a plank bottom
and slatted sides, through which the water constantly splashed and
wetted her through to the skin!  And there was nothing to eat when she
became hungry--as she was sure to do before long--and no fresh water to
drink and no dry clothes to put on.

"Well, I declare!" she exclaimed, with a laugh.  "You're in a pretty
fix, Dorothy Gale, I can tell you! and I haven't the least idea how
you're going to get out of it!"

As if to add to her troubles the night was now creeping on, and the
gray clouds overhead changed to inky blackness.  But the wind, as if
satisfied at last with its mischievous pranks, stopped blowing this
ocean and hurried away to another part of the world to blow something
else; so that the waves, not being joggled any more, began to quiet
down and behave themselves.

It was lucky for Dorothy, I think, that the storm subsided; otherwise,
brave though she was, I fear she might have perished.  Many children,
in her place, would have wept and given way to despair; but because
Dorothy had encountered so many adventures and come safely through them
it did not occur to her at this time to be especially afraid.  She was
wet and uncomfortable, it is true; but, after sighing that one sigh I
told you of, she managed to recall some of her customary cheerfulness
and decided to patiently await whatever her fate might be.

By and by the black clouds rolled away and showed a blue sky overhead,
with a silver moon shining sweetly in the middle of it and little stars
winking merrily at Dorothy when she looked their way.  The coop did not
toss around any more, but rode the waves more gently--almost like a
cradle rocking--so that the floor upon which Dorothy stood was no
longer swept by water coming through the slats.  Seeing this, and being
quite exhausted by the excitement of the past few hours, the little
girl decided that sleep would be the best thing to restore her strength
and the easiest way in which she could pass the time.  The floor was
damp and she was herself wringing wet, but fortunately this was a warm
climate and she did not feel at all cold.

So she sat down in a corner of the coop, leaned her back against the
slats, nodded at the friendly stars before she closed her eyes, and was
asleep in half a minute.




2.  The Yellow Hen


A strange noise awoke Dorothy, who opened her eyes to find that day had
dawned and the sun was shining brightly in a clear sky.  She had been
dreaming that she was back in Kansas again, and playing in the old
barn-yard with the calves and pigs and chickens all around her; and at
first, as she rubbed the sleep from her eyes, she really imagined she
was there.

"Kut-kut-kut, ka-daw-kut!  Kut-kut-kut, ka-daw-kut!"

Ah; here again was the strange noise that had awakened her.  Surely it
was a hen cackling!  But her wide-open eyes first saw, through the
slats of the coop, the blue waves of the ocean, now calm and placid,
and her thoughts flew back to the past night, so full of danger and
discomfort.  Also she began to remember that she was a waif of the
storm, adrift upon a treacherous and unknown sea.

"Kut-kut-kut, ka-daw-w-w--kut!"

"What's that?" cried Dorothy, starting to her feet.

"Why, I've just laid an egg, that's all," replied a small, but sharp
and distinct voice, and looking around her the little girl discovered a
yellow hen squatting in the opposite corner of the coop.

"Dear me!" she exclaimed, in surprise; "have YOU been here all night,
too?"

"Of course," answered the hen, fluttering her wings and yawning.  "When
the coop blew away from the ship I clung fast to this corner, with
claws and beak, for I knew if I fell into the water I'd surely be
drowned.  Indeed, I nearly drowned, as it was, with all that water
washing over me.  I never was so wet before in my life!"

"Yes," agreed Dorothy, "it was pretty wet, for a time, I know.  But do
you feel comfor'ble now?"

"Not very.  The sun has helped to dry my feathers, as it has your
dress, and I feel better since I laid my morning egg.  But what's to
become of us, I should like to know, afloat on this big pond?"

"I'd like to know that, too," said Dorothy.  "But, tell me; how does it
happen that you are able to talk?  I thought hens could only cluck and
cackle."

"Why, as for that," answered the yellow hen thoughtfully, "I've clucked
and cackled all my life, and never spoken a word before this morning,
that I can remember.  But when you asked a question, a minute ago, it
seemed the most natural thing in the world to answer you.  So I spoke,
and I seem to keep on speaking, just as you and other human beings do.
Strange, isn't it?"

"Very," replied Dorothy.  "If we were in the Land of Oz, I wouldn't
think it so queer, because many of the animals can talk in that fairy
country.  But out here in the ocean must be a good long way from Oz."

"How is my grammar?" asked the yellow hen, anxiously.  "Do I speak
quite properly, in your judgment?"

"Yes," said Dorothy, "you do very well, for a beginner."

"I'm glad to know that," continued the yellow hen, in a confidential
tone; "because, if one is going to talk, it's best to talk correctly.
The red rooster has often said that my cluck and my cackle were quite
perfect; and now it's a comfort to know I am talking properly."

"I'm beginning to get hungry," remarked Dorothy.  "It's breakfast time;
but there's no breakfast."

"You may have my egg," said the yellow hen.  "I don't care for it, you
know."

"Don't you want to hatch it?" asked the little girl, in surprise.

"No, indeed; I never care to hatch eggs unless I've a nice snug nest,
in some quiet place, with a baker's dozen of eggs under me.  That's
thirteen, you know, and it's a lucky number for hens.  So you may as
well eat this egg."

"Oh, I couldn't POSS'BLY eat it, unless it was cooked," exclaimed
Dorothy.  "But I'm much obliged for your kindness, just the same."

"Don't mention it, my dear," answered the hen, calmly, and began
preening her feathers.

For a moment Dorothy stood looking out over the wide sea.  She was
still thinking of the egg, though; so presently she asked:

"Why do you lay eggs, when you don't expect to hatch them?"

"It's a habit I have," replied the yellow hen.  "It has always been my
pride to lay a fresh egg every morning, except when I'm moulting.  I
never feel like having my morning cackle till the egg is properly laid,
and without the chance to cackle I would not be happy."

"It's strange," said the girl, reflectively; "but as I'm not a hen I
can't be 'spected to understand that."

"Certainly not, my dear."

Then Dorothy fell silent again.  The yellow hen was some company, and a
bit of comfort, too; but it was dreadfully lonely out on the big ocean,
nevertheless.

After a time the hen flew up and perched upon the topmost slat of the
coop, which was a little above Dorothy's head when she was sitting upon
the bottom, as she had been doing for some moments past.

"Why, we are not far from land!" exclaimed the hen.

"Where?  Where is it?" cried Dorothy, jumping up in great excitement.

"Over there a little way," answered the hen, nodding her head in a
certain direction.  "We seem to be drifting toward it, so that before
noon we ought to find ourselves upon dry land again."

"I shall like that!" said Dorothy, with a little sigh, for her feet and
legs were still wetted now and then by the sea-water that came through
the open slats.

"So shall I," answered her companion.  "There is nothing in the world
so miserable as a wet hen."

The land, which they seemed to be rapidly approaching, since it grew
more distinct every minute, was quite beautiful as viewed by the little
girl in the floating hen-coop.  Next to the water was a broad beach of
white sand and gravel, and farther back were several rocky hills, while
beyond these appeared a strip of green trees that marked the edge of a
forest.  But there were no houses to be seen, nor any sign of people
who might inhabit this unknown land.

"I hope we shall find something to eat," said Dorothy, looking eagerly
at the pretty beach toward which they drifted.  "It's long past
breakfast time, now."

"I'm a trifle hungry, myself," declared the yellow hen.

"Why don't you eat the egg?" asked the child.  "You don't need to have
your food cooked, as I do."

"Do you take me for a cannibal?" cried the hen, indignantly.  "I do not
know what I have said or done that leads you to insult me!"

"I beg your pardon, I'm sure Mrs.--Mrs.--by the way, may I inquire your
name, ma'am?" asked the little girl.

"My name is Bill," said the yellow hen, somewhat gruffly.

"Bill!  Why, that's a boy's name."

"What difference does that make?"

"You're a lady hen, aren't you?"

"Of course.  But when I was first hatched out no one could tell whether
I was going to be a hen or a rooster; so the little boy at the farm
where I was born called me Bill, and made a pet of me because I was the
only yellow chicken in the whole brood.  When I grew up, and he found
that I didn't crow and fight, as all the roosters do, he did not think
to change my name, and every creature in the barn-yard, as well as the
people in the house, knew me as 'Bill.'  So Bill I've always been
called, and Bill is my name."

"But it's all wrong, you know," declared Dorothy, earnestly; "and, if
you don't mind, I shall call you 'Billina.'  Putting the 'eena' on the
end makes it a girl's name, you see."

"Oh, I don't mind it in the least," returned the yellow hen.  "It
doesn't matter at all what you call me, so long as I know the name
means ME."

"Very well, Billina.  MY name is Dorothy Gale--just Dorothy to my
friends and Miss Gale to strangers.  You may call me Dorothy, if you
like.  We're getting very near the shore.  Do you suppose it is too
deep for me to wade the rest of the way?"

"Wait a few minutes longer.  The sunshine is warm and pleasant, and we
are in no hurry."

"But my feet are all wet and soggy," said the girl.  "My dress is dry
enough, but I won't feel real comfor'ble till I get my feet dried."

She waited, however, as the hen advised, and before long the big wooden
coop grated gently on the sandy beach and the dangerous voyage was over.

It did not take the castaways long to reach the shore, you may be sure.
The yellow hen flew to the sands at once, but Dorothy had to climb over
the high slats.  Still, for a country girl, that was not much of a
feat, and as soon as she was safe ashore Dorothy drew off her wet shoes
and stockings and spread them upon the sun-warmed beach to dry.

Then she sat down and watched Billina, who was pick-pecking away with
her sharp bill in the sand and gravel, which she scratched up and
turned over with her strong claws.

"What are you doing?" asked Dorothy.

"Getting my breakfast, of course," murmured the hen, busily pecking
away.

"What do you find?" inquired the girl, curiously.

"Oh, some fat red ants, and some sand-bugs, and once in a while a tiny
crab.  They are very sweet and nice, I assure you."

"How dreadful!" exclaimed Dorothy, in a shocked voice.

"What is dreadful?" asked the hen, lifting her head to gaze with one
bright eye at her companion.

"Why, eating live things, and horrid bugs, and crawly ants.  You ought
to be 'SHAMED of yourself!"

"Goodness me!" returned the hen, in a puzzled tone; "how queer you are,
Dorothy!  Live things are much fresher and more wholesome than dead
ones, and you humans eat all sorts of dead creatures."

"We don't!" said Dorothy.

"You do, indeed," answered Billina.  "You eat lambs and sheep and cows
and pigs and even chickens."

"But we cook 'em," said Dorothy, triumphantly.

"What difference does that make?"

"A good deal," said the girl, in a graver tone.  "I can't just 'splain
the diff'rence, but it's there.  And, anyhow, we never eat such
dreadful things as BUGS."

"But you eat the chickens that eat the bugs," retorted the yellow hen,
with an odd cackle.  "So you are just as bad as we chickens are."

This made Dorothy thoughtful.  What Billina said was true enough, and
it almost took away her appetite for breakfast.  As for the yellow hen,
she continued to peck away at the sand busily, and seemed quite
contented with her bill-of-fare.

Finally, down near the water's edge, Billina stuck her bill deep into
the sand, and then drew back and shivered.

"Ow!" she cried.  "I struck metal, that time, and it nearly broke my
beak."

"It prob'bly was a rock," said Dorothy, carelessly.

"Nonsense.  I know a rock from metal, I guess," said the hen.  "There's
a different feel to it."

"But there couldn't be any metal on this wild, deserted seashore,"
persisted the girl.  "Where's the place?  I'll dig it up, and prove to
you I'm right."

Billina showed her the place where she had "stubbed her bill," as she
expressed it, and Dorothy dug away the sand until she felt something
hard.  Then, thrusting in her hand, she pulled the thing out, and
discovered it to be a large sized golden key--rather old, but still
bright and of perfect shape.

"What did I tell you?" cried the hen, with a cackle of triumph.  "Can I
tell metal when I bump into it, or is the thing a rock?"

"It's metal, sure enough," answered the child, gazing thoughtfully at
the curious thing she had found.  "I think it is pure gold, and it must
have lain hidden in the sand for a long time.  How do you suppose it
came there, Billina?  And what do you suppose this mysterious key
unlocks?"

"I can't say," replied the hen.  "You ought to know more about locks
and keys than I do."

Dorothy glanced around.  There was no sign of any house in that part of
the country, and she reasoned that every key must fit a lock and every
lock must have a purpose.  Perhaps the key had been lost by somebody
who lived far away, but had wandered on this very shore.

Musing on these things the girl put the key in the pocket of her dress
and then slowly drew on her shoes and stockings, which the sun had
fully dried.

"I b'lieve, Billina," she said, "I'll have a look 'round, and see if I
can find some breakfast."




3.  Letters in the Sand


Walking a little way back from the water's edge, toward the grove of
trees, Dorothy came to a flat stretch of white sand that seemed to have
queer signs marked upon its surface, just as one would write upon sand
with a stick.

"What does it say?" she asked the yellow hen, who trotted along beside
her in a rather dignified fashion.

"How should I know?" returned the hen.  "I cannot read."

"Oh!  Can't you?"

"Certainly not; I've never been to school, you know."

"Well, I have," admitted Dorothy; "but the letters are big and far
apart, and it's hard to spell out the words."

But she looked at each letter carefully, and finally discovered that
these words were written in the sand:

"BEWARE THE WHEELERS!"


"That's rather strange," declared the hen, when Dorothy had read aloud
the words.  "What do you suppose the Wheelers are?"

"Folks that wheel, I guess.  They must have wheelbarrows, or baby-cabs
or hand-carts," said Dorothy.

"Perhaps they're automobiles," suggested the yellow hen.  "There is no
need to beware of baby-cabs and wheelbarrows; but automobiles are
dangerous things.  Several of my friends have been run over by them."

"It can't be auto'biles," replied the girl, "for this is a new, wild
country, without even trolley-cars or tel'phones.  The people here
haven't been discovered yet, I'm sure; that is, if there ARE any
people.  So I don't b'lieve there CAN be any auto'biles, Billina."

"Perhaps not," admitted the yellow hen.  "Where are you going now?"

"Over to those trees, to see if I can find some fruit or nuts,"
answered Dorothy.

She tramped across the sand, skirting the foot of one of the little
rocky hills that stood near, and soon reached the edge of the forest.

At first she was greatly disappointed, because the nearer trees were
all punita, or cotton-wood or eucalyptus, and bore no fruit or nuts at
all.  But, bye and bye, when she was almost in despair, the little girl
came upon two trees that promised to furnish her with plenty of food.

One was quite full of square paper boxes, which grew in clusters on all
the limbs, and upon the biggest and ripest boxes the word "Lunch" could
be read, in neat raised letters.  This tree seemed to bear all the year
around, for there were lunch-box blossoms on some of the branches, and
on others tiny little lunch-boxes that were as yet quite green, and
evidently not fit to eat until they had grown bigger.

The leaves of this tree were all paper napkins, and it presented a very
pleasing appearance to the hungry little girl.

But the tree next to the lunch-box tree was even more wonderful, for it
bore quantities of tin dinner-pails, which were so full and heavy that
the stout branches bent underneath their weight.  Some were small and
dark-brown in color; those larger were of a dull tin color; but the
really ripe ones were pails of bright tin that shone and glistened
beautifully in the rays of sunshine that touched them.

Dorothy was delighted, and even the yellow hen acknowledged that she
was surprised.

The little girl stood on tip-toe and picked one of the nicest and
biggest lunch-boxes, and then she sat down upon the ground and eagerly
opened it.  Inside she found, nicely wrapped in white papers, a ham
sandwich, a piece of sponge-cake, a pickle, a slice of new cheese and
an apple.  Each thing had a separate stem, and so had to be picked off
the side of the box; but Dorothy found them all to be delicious, and
she ate every bit of luncheon in the box before she had finished.

"A lunch isn't zactly breakfast," she said to Billina, who sat beside
her curiously watching.  "But when one is hungry one can eat even
supper in the morning, and not complain."

"I hope your lunch-box was perfectly ripe," observed the yellow hen, in
a anxious tone.  "So much sickness is caused by eating green things."

"Oh, I'm sure it was ripe," declared Dorothy, "all, that is, 'cept the
pickle, and a pickle just HAS to be green, Billina.  But everything
tasted perfectly splendid, and I'd rather have it than a church picnic.
And now I think I'll pick a dinner-pail, to have when I get hungry
again, and then we'll start out and 'splore the country, and see where
we are."

"Haven't you any idea what country this is?" inquired Billina.

"None at all.  But listen: I'm quite sure it's a fairy country, or such
things as lunch-boxes and dinner-pails wouldn't be growing upon trees.
Besides, Billina, being a hen, you wouldn't be able to talk in any
civ'lized country, like Kansas, where no fairies live at all."

"Perhaps we're in the Land of Oz," said the hen, thoughtfully.

"No, that can't be," answered the little girl; "because I've been to
the Land of Oz, and it's all surrounded by a horrid desert that no one
can cross."

"Then how did you get away from there again?" asked Billina.

"I had a pair of silver shoes, that carried me through the air; but I
lost them," said Dorothy.

"Ah, indeed," remarked the yellow hen, in a tone of unbelief.

"Anyhow," resumed the girl, "there is no seashore near the Land of Oz,
so this must surely be some other fairy country."

While she was speaking she selected a bright and pretty dinner-pail
that seemed to have a stout handle, and picked it from its branch.
Then, accompanied by the yellow hen, she walked out of the shadow of
the trees toward the sea-shore.

They were part way across the sands when Billina suddenly cried, in a
voice of terror:

"What's that?"

Dorothy turned quickly around, and saw coming out of a path that led
from between the trees the most peculiar person her eyes had ever
beheld.

It had the form of a man, except that it walked, or rather rolled, upon
all fours, and its legs were the same length as its arms, giving them
the appearance of the four legs of a beast.  Yet it was no beast that
Dorothy had discovered, for the person was clothed most gorgeously in
embroidered garments of many colors, and wore a straw hat perched
jauntily upon the side of its head.  But it differed from human beings
in this respect, that instead of hands and feet there grew at the end
of its arms and legs round wheels, and by means of these wheels it
rolled very swiftly over the level ground.  Afterward Dorothy found
that these odd wheels were of the same hard substance that our
finger-nails and toe-nails are composed of, and she also learned that
creatures of this strange race were born in this queer fashion.  But
when our little girl first caught sight of the first individual of a
race that was destined to cause her a lot of trouble, she had an idea
that the brilliantly-clothed personage was on roller-skates, which were
attached to his hands as well as to his feet.

"Run!" screamed the yellow hen, fluttering away in great fright.  "It's
a Wheeler!"

"A Wheeler?" exclaimed Dorothy.  "What can that be?"

"Don't you remember the warning in the sand: 'Beware the Wheelers'?
Run, I tell you--run!"

So Dorothy ran, and the Wheeler gave a sharp, wild cry and came after
her in full chase.

Looking over her shoulder as she ran, the girl now saw a great
procession of Wheelers emerging from the forest--dozens and dozens of
them--all clad in splendid, tight-fitting garments and all rolling
swiftly toward her and uttering their wild, strange cries.

"They're sure to catch us!" panted the girl, who was still carrying the
heavy dinner-pail she had picked.  "I can't run much farther, Billina."

"Climb up this hill,--quick!" said the hen; and Dorothy found she was
very near to the heap of loose and jagged rocks they had passed on
their way to the forest.  The yellow hen was even now fluttering among
the rocks, and Dorothy followed as best she could, half climbing and
half tumbling up the rough and rugged steep.

She was none too soon, for the foremost Wheeler reached the hill a
moment after her; but while the girl scrambled up the rocks the
creature stopped short with howls of rage and disappointment.

Dorothy now heard the yellow hen laughing, in her cackling, henny way.

"Don't hurry, my dear," cried Billina.  "They can't follow us among
these rocks, so we're safe enough now."

Dorothy stopped at once and sat down upon a broad boulder, for she was
all out of breath.

The rest of the Wheelers had now reached the foot of the hill, but it
was evident that their wheels would not roll upon the rough and jagged
rocks, and therefore they were helpless to follow Dorothy and the hen
to where they had taken refuge.  But they circled all around the little
hill, so the child and Billina were fast prisoners and could not come
down without being captured.

Then the creatures shook their front wheels at Dorothy in a threatening
manner, and it seemed they were able to speak as well as to make their
dreadful outcries, for several of them shouted:

"We'll get you in time, never fear!  And when we do get you, we'll tear
you into little bits!"

"Why are you so cruel to me?" asked Dorothy.  "I'm a stranger in your
country, and have done you no harm."

"No harm!" cried one who seemed to be their leader.  "Did you not pick
our lunch-boxes and dinner-pails?  Have you not a stolen dinner-pail
still in your hand?"

"I only picked one of each," she answered.  "I was hungry, and I didn't
know the trees were yours."

"That is no excuse," retorted the leader, who was clothed in a most
gorgeous suit.  "It is the law here that whoever picks a dinner-pail
without our permission must die immediately."

"Don't you believe him," said Billina.  "I'm sure the trees do not
belong to these awful creatures.  They are fit for any mischief, and
it's my opinion they would try to kill us just the same if you hadn't
picked a dinner-pail."

"I think so, too," agreed Dorothy.  "But what shall we do now?"

"Stay where we are," advised the yellow hen.  "We are safe from the
Wheelers until we starve to death, anyhow; and before that time comes a
good many things can happen."




4.  Tiktok the Machine Man


After an hour or so most of the band of Wheelers rolled back into the
forest, leaving only three of their number to guard the hill.  These
curled themselves up like big dogs and pretended to go to sleep on the
sands; but neither Dorothy nor Billina were fooled by this trick, so
they remained in security among the rocks and paid no attention to
their cunning enemies.

Finally the hen, fluttering over the mound, exclaimed: "Why, here's a
path!"

So Dorothy at once clambered to where Billina sat, and there, sure
enough, was a smooth path cut between the rocks.  It seemed to wind
around the mound from top to bottom, like a cork-screw, twisting here
and there between the rough boulders but always remaining level and
easy to walk upon.

Indeed, Dorothy wondered at first why the Wheelers did not roll up this
path; but when she followed it to the foot of the mound she found that
several big pieces of rock had been placed directly across the end of
the way, thus preventing any one outside from seeing it and also
preventing the Wheelers from using it to climb up the mound.

Then Dorothy walked back up the path, and followed it until she came to
the very top of the hill, where a solitary round rock stood that was
bigger than any of the others surrounding it.  The path came to an end
just beside this great rock, and for a moment it puzzled the girl to
know why the path had been made at all.  But the hen, who had been
gravely following her around and was now perched upon a point of rock
behind Dorothy, suddenly remarked:

"It looks something like a door, doesn't it?"

"What looks like a door?" enquired the child.

"Why, that crack in the rock, just facing you," replied Billina, whose
little round eyes were very sharp and seemed to see everything.  "It
runs up one side and down the other, and across the top and the bottom."

"What does?"

"Why, the crack.  So I think it must be a door of rock, although I do
not see any hinges."

"Oh, yes," said Dorothy, now observing for the first time the crack in
the rock.  "And isn't this a key-hole, Billina?" pointing to a round,
deep hole at one side of the door.

"Of course.  If we only had the key, now, we could unlock it and see
what is there," replied the yellow hen.  "May be it's a treasure
chamber full of diamonds and rubies, or heaps of shining gold, or--"

"That reminds me," said Dorothy, "of the golden key I picked up on the
shore.  Do you think that it would fit this key-hole, Billina?"

"Try it and see," suggested the hen.

So Dorothy searched in the pocket of her dress and found the golden
key.  And when she had put it into the hole of the rock, and turned it,
a sudden sharp snap was heard; then, with a solemn creak that made the
shivers run down the child's back, the face of the rock fell outward,
like a door on hinges, and revealed a small dark chamber just inside.

"Good gracious!" cried Dorothy, shrinking back as far as the narrow
path would let her.

For, standing within the narrow chamber of rock, was the form of a
man--or, at least, it seemed like a man, in the dim light.  He was only
about as tall as Dorothy herself, and his body was round as a ball and
made out of burnished copper.  Also his head and limbs were copper, and
these were jointed or hinged to his body in a peculiar way, with metal
caps over the joints, like the armor worn by knights in days of old.
He stood perfectly still, and where the light struck upon his form it
glittered as if made of pure gold.

"Don't be frightened," called Billina, from her perch.  "It isn't
alive."

"I see it isn't," replied the girl, drawing a long breath.

"It is only made out of copper, like the old kettle in the barn-yard at
home," continued the hen, turning her head first to one side and then
to the other, so that both her little round eyes could examine the
object.

"Once," said Dorothy, "I knew a man made out of tin, who was a woodman
named Nick Chopper.  But he was as alive as we are, 'cause he was born
a real man, and got his tin body a little at a time--first a leg and
then a finger and then an ear--for the reason that he had so many
accidents with his axe, and cut himself up in a very careless manner."

"Oh," said the hen, with a sniff, as if she did not believe the story.

"But this copper man," continued Dorothy, looking at it with big eyes,
"is not alive at all, and I wonder what it was made for, and why it was
locked up in this queer place."

"That is a mystery," remarked the hen, twisting her head to arrange her
wing-feathers with her bill.

Dorothy stepped inside the little room to get a back view of the copper
man, and in this way discovered a printed card that hung between his
shoulders, it being suspended from a small copper peg at the back of
his neck.  She unfastened this card and returned to the path, where the
light was better, and sat herself down upon a slab of rock to read the
printing.

"What does it say?" asked the hen, curiously.

Dorothy read the card aloud, spelling out the big words with some
difficulty; and this is what she read:

  +-----------------------------------------------------------------+
  |                                                                 |
  |                       SMITH & TINKER'S                          |
  |          Patent Double-Action, Extra-Responsive,                |
  |              Thought-Creating, Perfect-Talking                  |
  |                       MECHANICAL MAN                            |
  |        Fitted with our Special Clock-Work Attachment.           |
  |        Thinks, Speaks, Acts, and Does Everything but Live.      |
  |        Manufactured only at our Works at Evna, Land of Ev.      |
  | All infringements will be promptly Prosecuted according to Law. |
  |                                                                 |
  +-----------------------------------------------------------------+


"How queer!" said the yellow hen.  "Do you think that is all true, my
dear?"

"I don't know," answered Dorothy, who had more to read.  "Listen to
this, Billina:"

  +--------------------------------------------------+
  |                                                  |
  |           DIRECTIONS FOR USING:                  |
  | For THINKING:--Wind the Clock-work Man under his |
  |       left arm, (marked No. 1.)                  |
  | For SPEAKING:--Wind the Clock-work Man under his |
  |       right arm, (marked No. 2.)                 |
  | For WALKING and ACTION:--Wind Clock-work in the  |
  |       middle of his back, (marked No. 3.)        |
  | N. B.--This Mechanism is guaranteed to work      |
  |       perfectly for a thousand years.            |
  |                                                  |
  +--------------------------------------------------+


"Well, I declare!" gasped the yellow hen, in amazement; "if the copper
man can do half of these things he is a very wonderful machine.  But I
suppose it is all humbug, like so many other patented articles."

"We might wind him up," suggested Dorothy, "and see what he'll do."

"Where is the key to the clock-work?" asked Billina.

"Hanging on the peg where I found the card."

"Then," said the hen, "let us try him, and find out if he will go.  He
is warranted for a thousand years, it seems; but we do not know how
long he has been standing inside this rock."

Dorothy had already taken the clock key from the peg.

"Which shall I wind up first?" she asked, looking again at the
directions on the card.

"Number One, I should think," returned Billina.  "That makes him think,
doesn't it?"

"Yes," said Dorothy, and wound up Number One, under the left arm.

"He doesn't seem any different," remarked the hen, critically.

"Why, of course not; he is only thinking, now," said Dorothy.

"I wonder what he is thinking about."

"I'll wind up his talk, and then perhaps he can tell us," said the girl.

So she wound up Number Two, and immediately the clock-work man said,
without moving any part of his body except his lips:

"Good morn-ing, lit-tle girl.  Good morn-ing, Mrs. Hen."

The words sounded a little hoarse and creaky, and they were uttered all
in the same tone, without any change of expression whatever; but both
Dorothy and Billina understood them perfectly.

"Good morning, sir," they answered, politely.

"Thank you for res-cu-ing me," continued the machine, in the same
monotonous voice, which seemed to be worked by a bellows inside of him,
like the little toy lambs and cats the children squeeze so that they
will make a noise.

"Don't mention it," answered Dorothy.  And then, being very curious,
she asked: "How did you come to be locked up in this place?"

"It is a long sto-ry," replied the copper man; "but I will tell it to
you brief-ly.  I was pur-chased from Smith & Tin-ker, my
man-u-fac-tur-ers, by a cru-el King of Ev, named Ev-ol-do, who used to
beat all his serv-ants un-til they died.  How-ev-er, he was not a-ble
to kill me, be-cause I was not a-live, and one must first live in
or-der to die.  So that all his beat-ing did me no harm, and mere-ly
kept my cop-per bod-y well pol-ished.

"This cru-el king had a love-ly wife and ten beau-ti-ful
chil-dren--five boys and five girls--but in a fit of an-ger he sold
them all to the Nome King, who by means of his mag-ic arts changed them
all in-to oth-er forms and put them in his un-der-ground pal-ace to
or-na-ment the rooms.

"Af-ter-ward the King of Ev re-gret-ted his wick-ed ac-tion, and tried
to get his wife and chil-dren a-way from the Nome King, but with-out
a-vail.  So, in de-spair, he locked me up in this rock, threw the key
in-to the o-cean, and then jumped in af-ter it and was drowned."

"How very dreadful!" exclaimed Dorothy.

"It is, in-deed," said the machine.  "When I found my-self im-pris-oned
I shout-ed for help un-til my voice ran down; and then I walked back
and forth in this lit-tle room un-til my ac-tion ran down; and then I
stood still and thought un-til my thoughts ran down.  Af-ter that I
re-mem-ber noth-ing un-til you wound me up a-gain."

"It's a very wonderful story," said Dorothy, "and proves that the Land
of Ev is really a fairy land, as I thought it was."

"Of course it is," answered the copper man.  "I do not sup-pose such a
per-fect ma-chine as I am could be made in an-y place but a fair-y
land."

"I've never seen one in Kansas," said Dorothy.

"But where did you get the key to un-lock this door?" asked the
clock-work voice.

"I found it on the shore, where it was prob'ly washed up by the waves,"
she answered.  "And now, sir, if you don't mind, I'll wind up your
action."

"That will please me ve-ry much," said the machine.

So she wound up Number Three, and at once the copper man in a somewhat
stiff and jerky fashion walked out of the rocky cavern, took off his
copper hat and bowed politely, and then kneeled before Dorothy.  Said
he:

"From this time forth I am your o-be-di-ent ser-vant.  What-ev-er you
com-mand, that I will do will-ing-ly--if you keep me wound up."

"What is your name?" she asked.

"Tik-tok," he replied.  "My for-mer mas-ter gave me that name be-cause
my clock-work al-ways ticks when it is wound up."

"I can hear it now," said the yellow hen.

"So can I," said Dorothy.  And then she added, with some anxiety: "You
don't strike, do you?"

"No," answered Tiktok; "and there is no a-larm con-nec-ted with my
ma-chin-er-y.  I can tell the time, though, by speak-ing, and as I
nev-er sleep I can wak-en you at an-y hour you wish to get up in the
morn-ing."

"That's nice," said the little girl; "only I never wish to get up in
the morning."

"You can sleep until I lay my egg," said the yellow hen.  "Then, when I
cackle, Tiktok will know it is time to waken you."

"Do you lay your egg very early?" asked Dorothy.

"About eight o'clock," said Billina.  "And everybody ought to be up by
that time, I'm sure."




5.  Dorothy Opens the Dinner Pail


"Now Tiktok," said Dorothy, "the first thing to be done is to find a
way for us to escape from these rocks.  The Wheelers are down below,
you know, and threaten to kill us."

"There is no rea-son to be a-fraid of the Wheel-ers," said Tiktok, the
words coming more slowly than before.

"Why not?" she asked.

"Be-cause they are ag-g-g--gr-gr-r-r-"

He gave a sort of gurgle and stopped short, waving his hands
frantically until suddenly he became motionless, with one arm in the
air and the other held stiffly before him with all the copper fingers
of the hand spread out like a fan.

"Dear me!" said Dorothy, in a frightened tone.  "What can the matter
be?"

"He's run down, I suppose," said the hen, calmly.  "You couldn't have
wound him up very tight."

"I didn't know how much to wind him," replied the girl; "but I'll try
to do better next time."

She ran around the copper man to take the key from the peg at the back
of his neck, but it was not there.

"It's gone!" cried Dorothy, in dismay.

"What's gone?" asked Billina.

"The key."

"It probably fell off when he made that low bow to you," returned the
hen.  "Look around, and see if you cannot find it again."

Dorothy looked, and the hen helped her, and by and by the girl
discovered the clock-key, which had fallen into a crack of the rock.

At once she wound up Tiktok's voice, taking care to give the key as
many turns as it would go around.  She found this quite a task, as you
may imagine if you have ever tried to wind a clock, but the machine
man's first words were to assure Dorothy that he would now run for at
least twenty-four hours.

"You did not wind me much, at first," he calmly said, "and I told you
that long sto-ry a-bout King Ev-ol-do; so it is no won-der that I ran
down."

She next rewound the action clock-work, and then Billina advised her to
carry the key to Tiktok in her pocket, so it would not get lost again.

"And now," said Dorothy, when all this was accomplished, "tell me what
you were going to say about the Wheelers."

"Why, they are noth-ing to be fright-en'd at," said the machine.  "They
try to make folks be-lieve that they are ver-y ter-ri-ble, but as a
mat-ter of fact the Wheel-ers are harm-less e-nough to an-y one that
dares to fight them.  They might try to hurt a lit-tle girl like you,
per-haps, be-cause they are ver-y mis-chiev-ous.  But if I had a club
they would run a-way as soon as they saw me."

"Haven't you a club?" asked Dorothy.

"No," said Tiktok.

"And you won't find such a thing among these rocks, either," declared
the yellow hen.

"Then what shall we do?" asked the girl.

"Wind up my think-works tight-ly, and I will try to think of some
oth-er plan," said Tiktok.

So Dorothy rewound his thought machinery, and while he was thinking she
decided to eat her dinner.  Billina was already pecking away at the
cracks in the rocks, to find something to eat, so Dorothy sat down and
opened her tin dinner-pail.

In the cover she found a small tank that was full of very nice
lemonade.  It was covered by a cup, which might also, when removed, be
used to drink the lemonade from.  Within the pail were three slices of
turkey, two slices of cold tongue, some lobster salad, four slices of
bread and butter, a small custard pie, an orange and nine large
strawberries, and some nuts and raisins.  Singularly enough, the nuts
in this dinner-pail grew already cracked, so that Dorothy had no
trouble in picking out their meats to eat.

She spread the feast upon the rock beside her and began her dinner,
first offering some of it to Tiktok, who declined because, as he said,
he was merely a machine.  Afterward she offered to share with Billina,
but the hen murmured something about "dead things" and said she
preferred her bugs and ants.

"Do the lunch-box trees and the dinner-pail trees belong to the
Wheelers?" the child asked Tiktok, while engaged in eating her meal.

"Of course not," he answered.  "They be-long to the roy-al fam-il-y of
Ev, on-ly of course there is no roy-al fam-il-y just now be-cause King
Ev-ol-do jumped in-to the sea and his wife and ten chil-dren have been
trans-formed by the Nome King.  So there is no one to rule the Land of
Ev, that I can think of.  Per-haps it is for this rea-son that the
Wheel-ers claim the trees for their own, and pick the lunch-eons and
din-ners to eat them-selves.  But they be-long to the King, and you
will find the roy-al "E" stamped up-on the bot-tom of ev-er-y din-ner
pail."

Dorothy turned the pail over, and at once discovered the royal mark
upon it, as Tiktok had said.

"Are the Wheelers the only folks living in the Land of Ev?" enquired
the girl.

"No; they on-ly in-hab-it a small por-tion of it just back of the
woods," replied the machine.  "But they have al-ways been mis-chiev-ous
and im-per-ti-nent, and my old mas-ter, King Ev-ol-do, used to car-ry a
whip with him, when he walked out, to keep the crea-tures in or-der.
When I was first made the Wheel-ers tried to run o-ver me, and butt me
with their heads; but they soon found I was built of too sol-id a
ma-ter-i-al for them to in-jure."

"You seem very durable," said Dorothy.  "Who made you?"

"The firm of Smith & Tin-ker, in the town of Evna, where the roy-al
pal-ace stands," answered Tiktok.

"Did they make many of you?" asked the child.

"No; I am the on-ly au-to-mat-ic me-chan-i-cal man they ev-er
com-plet-ed," he replied.  "They were ver-y won-der-ful in-ven-tors,
were my mak-ers, and quite ar-tis-tic in all they did."

"I am sure of that," said Dorothy.  "Do they live in the town of Evna
now?"

"They are both gone," replied the machine.  "Mr. Smith was an art-ist,
as well as an in-vent-or, and he paint-ed a pic-ture of a riv-er which
was so nat-ur-al that, as he was reach-ing a-cross it to paint some
flow-ers on the op-po-site bank, he fell in-to the wa-ter and was
drowned."

"Oh, I'm sorry for that!" exclaimed the little girl.

"Mis-ter Tin-ker," continued Tiktok, "made a lad-der so tall that he
could rest the end of it a-gainst the moon, while he stood on the
high-est rung and picked the lit-tle stars to set in the points of the
king's crown.  But when he got to the moon Mis-ter Tin-ker found it
such a love-ly place that he de-cid-ed to live there, so he pulled up
the lad-der af-ter him and we have nev-er seen him since."

"He must have been a great loss to this country," said Dorothy, who was
by this time eating her custard pie.

"He was," acknowledged Tiktok.  "Also he is a great loss to me.  For if
I should get out of or-der I do not know of an-y one a-ble to re-pair
me, be-cause I am so com-pli-cat-ed.  You have no i-de-a how full of
ma-chin-er-y I am."

"I can imagine it," said Dorothy, readily.

"And now," continued the machine, "I must stop talk-ing and be-gin
think-ing a-gain of a way to es-cape from this rock."  So he turned
half way around, in order to think without being disturbed.

"The best thinker I ever knew," said Dorothy to the yellow hen, "was a
scarecrow."

"Nonsense!" snapped Billina.

"It is true," declared Dorothy.  "I met him in the Land of Oz, and he
traveled with me to the city of the great Wizard of Oz, so as to get
some brains, for his head was only stuffed with straw.  But it seemed
to me that he thought just as well before he got his brains as he did
afterward."

"Do you expect me to believe all that rubbish about the Land of Oz?"
enquired Billina, who seemed a little cross--perhaps because bugs were
scarce.

"What rubbish?" asked the child, who was now finishing her nuts and
raisins.

"Why, your impossible stories about animals that can talk, and a tin
woodman who is alive, and a scarecrow who can think."

"They are all there," said Dorothy, "for I have seen them."

"I don't believe it!" cried the hen, with a toss of her head.

"That's 'cause you're so ign'rant," replied the girl, who was a little
offended at her friend Billina's speech.

"In the Land of Oz," remarked Tiktok, turning toward them, "an-y-thing
is pos-si-ble.  For it is a won-der-ful fair-y coun-try."

"There, Billina! what did I say?" cried Dorothy.  And then she turned
to the machine and asked in an eager tone: "Do you know the Land of Oz,
Tiktok?"

"No; but I have heard a-bout it," said the cop-per man.  "For it is
on-ly sep-a-ra-ted from this Land of Ev by a broad des-ert."

Dorothy clapped her hands together delightedly.

"I'm glad of that!" she exclaimed.  "It makes me quite happy to be so
near my old friends.  The scarecrow I told you of, Billina, is the King
of the Land of Oz."

"Par-don me.  He is not the king now," said Tiktok.

"He was when I left there," declared Dorothy.

"I know," said Tiktok, "but there was a rev-o-lu-tion in the Land of
Oz, and the Scare-crow was de-posed by a sol-dier wo-man named
Gen-er-al Jin-jur.  And then Jin-jur was de-posed by a lit-tle girl
named Oz-ma, who was the right-ful heir to the throne and now rules the
land un-der the ti-tle of Oz-ma of Oz."

"That is news to me," said Dorothy, thoughtfully.  "But I s'pose lots
of things have happened since I left the Land of Oz.  I wonder what has
become of the Scarecrow, and of the Tin Woodman, and the Cowardly Lion.
And I wonder who this girl Ozma is, for I never heard of her before."

But Tiktok did not reply to this.  He had turned around again to resume
his thinking.

Dorothy packed the rest of the food back into the pail, so as not to be
wasteful of good things, and the yellow hen forgot her dignity far
enough to pick up all of the scattered crumbs, which she ate rather
greedily, although she had so lately pretended to despise the things
that Dorothy preferred as food.

By this time Tiktok approached them with his stiff bow.

"Be kind e-nough to fol-low me," he said, "and I will lead you a-way
from here to the town of Ev-na, where you will be more com-for-ta-ble,
and al-so I will pro-tect you from the Wheel-ers."

"All right," answered Dorothy, promptly.  "I'm ready!"




6.  The Heads of Langwidere


They walked slowly down the path between the rocks, Tiktok going first,
Dorothy following him, and the yellow hen trotting along last of all.

At the foot of the path the copper man leaned down and tossed aside
with ease the rocks that encumbered the way.  Then he turned to Dorothy
and said:

"Let me car-ry your din-ner-pail."

She placed it in his right hand at once, and the copper fingers closed
firmly over the stout handle.

Then the little procession marched out upon the level sands.

As soon as the three Wheelers who were guarding the mound saw them,
they began to shout their wild cries and rolled swiftly toward the
little group, as if to capture them or bar their way.  But when the
foremost had approached near enough, Tiktok swung the tin dinner-pail
and struck the Wheeler a sharp blow over its head with the queer
weapon.  Perhaps it did not hurt very much, but it made a great noise,
and the Wheeler uttered a howl and tumbled over upon its side.  The
next minute it scrambled to its wheels and rolled away as fast as it
could go, screeching with fear at the same time.

"I told you they were harm-less," began Tiktok; but before he could say
more another Wheeler was upon them.  Crack! went the dinner-pail
against its head, knocking its straw hat a dozen feet away; and that
was enough for this Wheeler, also.  It rolled away after the first one,
and the third did not wait to be pounded with the pail, but joined its
fellows as quickly as its wheels would whirl.

The yellow hen gave a cackle of delight, and flying to a perch upon
Tiktok's shoulder, she said:

"Bravely done, my copper friend! and wisely thought of, too.  Now we
are free from those ugly creatures."

But just then a large band of Wheelers rolled from the forest, and
relying upon their numbers to conquer, they advanced fiercely upon
Tiktok.  Dorothy grabbed Billina in her arms and held her tight, and
the machine embraced the form of the little girl with his left arm, the
better to protect her.  Then the Wheelers were upon them.

Rattlety, bang! bang! went the dinner-pail in every direction, and it
made so much clatter bumping against the heads of the Wheelers that
they were much more frightened than hurt and fled in a great panic.
All, that is, except their leader.  This Wheeler had stumbled against
another and fallen flat upon his back, and before he could get his
wheels under him to rise again, Tiktok had fastened his copper fingers
into the neck of the gorgeous jacket of his foe and held him fast.

"Tell your peo-ple to go a-way," commanded the machine.

The leader of the Wheelers hesitated to give this order, so Tiktok
shook him as a terrier dog does a rat, until the Wheeler's teeth
rattled together with a noise like hailstones on a window pane.  Then,
as soon as the creature could get its breath, it shouted to the others
to roll away, which they immediately did.

"Now," said Tiktok, "you shall come with us and tell me what I want to
know."

"You'll be sorry for treating me in this way," whined the Wheeler.
"I'm a terribly fierce person."

"As for that," answered Tiktok, "I am only a ma-chine, and can-not feel
sor-row or joy, no mat-ter what hap-pens.  But you are wrong to think
your-self ter-ri-ble or fierce."

"Why so?" asked the Wheeler.

"Be-cause no one else thinks as you do.  Your wheels make you help-less
to in-jure an-y one.  For you have no fists and can not scratch or
e-ven pull hair.  Nor have you an-y feet to kick with.  All you can do
is to yell and shout, and that does not hurt an-y one at all."

The Wheeler burst into a flood of tears, to Dorothy's great surprise.

"Now I and my people are ruined forever!" he sobbed; "for you have
discovered our secret.  Being so helpless, our only hope is to make
people afraid of us, by pretending we are very fierce and terrible, and
writing in the sand warnings to Beware the Wheelers.  Until now we have
frightened everyone, but since you have discovered our weakness our
enemies will fall upon us and make us very miserable and unhappy."

"Oh, no," exclaimed Dorothy, who was sorry to see this beautifully
dressed Wheeler so miserable; "Tiktok will keep your secret, and so
will Billina and I.  Only, you must promise not to try to frighten
children any more, if they come near to you."

"I won't--indeed I won't!" promised the Wheeler, ceasing to cry and
becoming more cheerful.  "I'm not really bad, you know; but we have to
pretend to be terrible in order to prevent others from attacking us."

"That is not ex-act-ly true," said Tiktok, starting to walk toward the
path through the forest, and still holding fast to his prisoner, who
rolled slowly along beside him.  "You and your peo-ple are full of
mis-chief, and like to both-er those who fear you.  And you are of-ten
im-pu-dent and dis-a-gree-a-ble, too.  But if you will try to cure
those faults I will not tell any-one how help-less you are."

"I'll try, of course," replied the Wheeler, eagerly.  "And thank you,
Mr. Tiktok, for your kindness."

"I am on-ly a ma-chine," said Tiktok.  "I can not be kind an-y more
than I can be sor-ry or glad.  I can on-ly do what I am wound up to do."

"Are you wound up to keep my secret?" asked the Wheeler, anxiously.

"Yes; if you be-have your-self.  But tell me: who rules the Land of Ev
now?" asked the machine.

"There is no ruler," was the answer, "because every member of the royal
family is imprisoned by the Nome King.  But the Princess Langwidere,
who is a niece of our late King Evoldo, lives in a part of the royal
palace and takes as much money out of the royal treasury as she can
spend.  The Princess Langwidere is not exactly a ruler, you see,
because she doesn't rule; but she is the nearest approach to a ruler we
have at present."

"I do not re-mem-ber her," said Tiktok.  "What does she look like?"

"That I cannot say," replied the Wheeler, "although I have seen her
twenty times.  For the Princess Langwidere is a different person every
time I see her, and the only way her subjects can recognize her at all
is by means of a beautiful ruby key which she always wears on a chain
attached to her left wrist.  When we see the key we know we are
beholding the Princess."

"That is strange," said Dorothy, in astonishment.  "Do you mean to say
that so many different princesses are one and the same person?"

"Not exactly," answered the Wheeler.  "There is, of course, but one
princess; but she appears to us in many forms, which are all more or
less beautiful."

"She must be a witch," exclaimed the girl.

"I do not think so," declared the Wheeler.  "But there is some mystery
connected with her, nevertheless.  She is a very vain creature, and
lives mostly in a room surrounded by mirrors, so that she can admire
herself whichever way she looks."

No one answered this speech, because they had just passed out of the
forest and their attention was fixed upon the scene before them--a
beautiful vale in which were many fruit trees and green fields, with
pretty farm-houses scattered here and there and broad, smooth roads
that led in every direction.

In the center of this lovely vale, about a mile from where our friends
were standing, rose the tall spires of the royal palace, which
glittered brightly against their background of blue sky.  The palace
was surrounded by charming grounds, full of flowers and shrubbery.
Several tinkling fountains could be seen, and there were pleasant walks
bordered by rows of white marble statuary.

All these details Dorothy was, of course, unable to notice or admire
until they had advanced along the road to a position quite near to the
palace, and she was still looking at the pretty sights when her little
party entered the grounds and approached the big front door of the
king's own apartments.  To their disappointment they found the door
tightly closed.  A sign was tacked to the panel which read as follows:

  +----------------------------+
  |                            |
  |       OWNER ABSENT.        |
  |                            |
  | Please Knock at the Third  |
  | Door in the Left Wing.     |
  |                            |
  +----------------------------+


"Now," said Tiktok to the captive Wheeler, "you must show us the way to
the Left Wing."

"Very well," agreed the prisoner, "it is around here at the right."

"How can the left wing be at the right?" demanded Dorothy, who feared
the Wheeler was fooling them.

"Because there used to be three wings, and two were torn down, so the
one on the right is the only one left.  It is a trick of the Princess
Langwidere to prevent visitors from annoying her."

Then the captive led them around to the wing, after which the machine
man, having no further use for the Wheeler, permitted him to depart and
rejoin his fellows.  He immediately rolled away at a great pace and was
soon lost to sight.

Tiktok now counted the doors in the wing and knocked loudly upon the
third one.

It was opened by a little maid in a cap trimmed with gay ribbons, who
bowed respectfully and asked:

"What do you wish, good people?"

"Are you the Princess Langwidere?" asked Dorothy.

"No, miss; I am her servant," replied the maid.

"May I see the Princess, please?"

"I will tell her you are here, miss, and ask her to grant you an
audience," said the maid.  "Step in, please, and take a seat in the
drawing-room."

So Dorothy walked in, followed closely by the machine.  But as the
yellow hen tried to enter after them, the little maid cried "Shoo!" and
flapped her apron in Billina's face.

"Shoo, yourself!" retorted the hen, drawing back in anger and ruffling
up her feathers.  "Haven't you any better manners than that?"

"Oh, do you talk?" enquired the maid, evidently surprised.

"Can't you hear me?" snapped Billina.  "Drop that apron, and get out of
the doorway, so that I may enter with my friends!"

"The Princess won't like it," said the maid, hesitating.

"I don't care whether she likes it or not," replied Billina, and
fluttering her wings with a loud noise she flew straight at the maid's
face.  The little servant at once ducked her head, and the hen reached
Dorothy's side in safety.

"Very well," sighed the maid; "if you are all ruined because of this
obstinate hen, don't blame me for it.  It isn't safe to annoy the
Princess Langwidere."

"Tell her we are waiting, if you please," Dorothy requested, with
dignity.  "Billina is my friend, and must go wherever I go."

Without more words the maid led them to a richly furnished
drawing-room, lighted with subdued rainbow tints that came in through
beautiful stained-glass windows.

"Remain here," she said.  "What names shall I give the Princess?"

"I am Dorothy Gale, of Kansas," replied the child; "and this gentleman
is a machine named Tiktok, and the yellow hen is my friend Billina."

The little servant bowed and withdrew, going through several passages
and mounting two marble stairways before she came to the apartments
occupied by her mistress.

Princess Langwidere's sitting-room was paneled with great mirrors,
which reached from the ceiling to the floor; also the ceiling was
composed of mirrors, and the floor was of polished silver that
reflected every object upon it.  So when Langwidere sat in her easy
chair and played soft melodies upon her mandolin, her form was mirrored
hundreds of times, in walls and ceiling and floor, and whichever way
the lady turned her head she could see and admire her own features.
This she loved to do, and just as the maid entered she was saying to
herself:

"This head with the auburn hair and hazel eyes is quite attractive.  I
must wear it more often than I have done of late, although it may not
be the best of my collection."

"You have company, Your Highness," announced the maid, bowing low.

"Who is it?" asked Langwidere, yawning.

"Dorothy Gale of Kansas, Mr. Tiktok and Billina," answered the maid.

"What a queer lot of names!" murmured the Princess, beginning to be a
little interested.  "What are they like?  Is Dorothy Gale of Kansas
pretty?"

"She might be called so," the maid replied.

"And is Mr. Tiktok attractive?" continued the Princess.

"That I cannot say, Your Highness.  But he seems very bright.  Will
Your Gracious Highness see them?"

"Oh, I may as well, Nanda.  But I am tired admiring this head, and if
my visitor has any claim to beauty I must take care that she does not
surpass me.  So I will go to my cabinet and change to No. 17, which I
think is my best appearance.  Don't you?"

"Your No. 17 is exceedingly beautiful," answered Nanda, with another
bow.

Again the Princess yawned.  Then she said:

"Help me to rise."

So the maid assisted her to gain her feet, although Langwidere was the
stronger of the two; and then the Princess slowly walked across the
silver floor to her cabinet, leaning heavily at every step upon Nanda's
arm.

Now I must explain to you that the Princess Langwidere had thirty
heads--as many as there are days in the month.  But of course she could
only wear one of them at a time, because she had but one neck.  These
heads were kept in what she called her "cabinet," which was a beautiful
dressing-room that lay just between Langwidere's sleeping-chamber and
the mirrored sitting-room.  Each head was in a separate cupboard lined
with velvet.  The cupboards ran all around the sides of the
dressing-room, and had elaborately carved doors with gold numbers on
the outside and jeweled-framed mirrors on the inside of them.

When the Princess got out of her crystal bed in the morning she went to
her cabinet, opened one of the velvet-lined cupboards, and took the
head it contained from its golden shelf.  Then, by the aid of the
mirror inside the open door, she put on the head--as neat and straight
as could be--and afterward called her maids to robe her for the day.
She always wore a simple white costume, that suited all the heads.
For, being able to change her face whenever she liked, the Princess had
no interest in wearing a variety of gowns, as have other ladies who are
compelled to wear the same face constantly.

Of course the thirty heads were in great variety, no two formed alike
but all being of exceeding loveliness.  There were heads with golden
hair, brown hair, rich auburn hair and black hair; but none with gray
hair.  The heads had eyes of blue, of gray, of hazel, of brown and of
black; but there were no red eyes among them, and all were bright and
handsome.  The noses were Grecian, Roman, retrousse and Oriental,
representing all types of beauty; and the mouths were of assorted sizes
and shapes, displaying pearly teeth when the heads smiled.  As for
dimples, they appeared in cheeks and chins, wherever they might be most
charming, and one or two heads had freckles upon the faces to contrast
the better with the brilliancy of their complexions.

One key unlocked all the velvet cupboards containing these treasures--a
curious key carved from a single blood-red ruby--and this was fastened
to a strong but slender chain which the Princess wore around her left
wrist.

When Nanda had supported Langwidere to a position in front of cupboard
No. 17, the Princess unlocked the door with her ruby key and after
handing head No. 9, which she had been wearing, to the maid, she took
No. 17 from its shelf and fitted it to her neck.  It had black hair and
dark eyes and a lovely pearl-and-white complexion, and when Langwidere
wore it she knew she was remarkably beautiful in appearance.

There was only one trouble with No. 17; the temper that went with it
(and which was hidden somewhere under the glossy black hair) was fiery,
harsh and haughty in the extreme, and it often led the Princess to do
unpleasant things which she regretted when she came to wear her other
heads.

But she did not remember this today, and went to meet her guests in the
drawing-room with a feeling of certainty that she would surprise them
with her beauty.

However, she was greatly disappointed to find that her visitors were
merely a small girl in a gingham dress, a copper man that would only go
when wound up, and a yellow hen that was sitting contentedly in
Langwidere's best work-basket, where there was a china egg used for
darning stockings.  (It may surprise you to learn that a princess ever
does such a common thing as darn stockings.  But, if you will stop to
think, you will realize that a princess is sure to wear holes in her
stockings, the same as other people; only it isn't considered quite
polite to mention the matter.)

"Oh!" said Langwidere, slightly lifting the nose of No. 17.  "I thought
some one of importance had called."

"Then you were right," declared Dorothy.  "I'm a good deal of 'portance
myself, and when Billina lays an egg she has the proudest cackle you
ever heard.  As for Tiktok, he's the--"

"Stop--Stop!" commanded the Princess, with an angry flash of her
splendid eyes.  "How dare you annoy me with your senseless chatter?"

"Why, you horrid thing!" said Dorothy, who was not accustomed to being
treated so rudely.

The Princess looked at her more closely.

"Tell me," she resumed, "are you of royal blood?"

"Better than that, ma'am," said Dorothy.  "I came from Kansas."

"Huh!" cried the Princess, scornfully.  "You are a foolish child, and I
cannot allow you to annoy me.  Run away, you little goose, and bother
some one else."

Dorothy was so indignant that for a moment she could find no words to
reply.  But she rose from her chair, and was about to leave the room
when the Princess, who had been scanning the girl's face, stopped her
by saying, more gently:

"Come nearer to me."

Dorothy obeyed, without a thought of fear, and stood before the
Princess while Langwidere examined her face with careful attention.

"You are rather attractive," said the lady, presently.  "Not at all
beautiful, you understand, but you have a certain style of prettiness
that is different from that of any of my thirty heads.  So I believe
I'll take your head and give you No. 26 for it."

"Well, I b'lieve you won't!" exclaimed Dorothy.

"It will do you no good to refuse," continued the Princess; "for I need
your head for my collection, and in the Land of Ev my will is law.  I
never have cared much for No. 26, and you will find that it is very
little worn.  Besides, it will do you just as well as the one you're
wearing, for all practical purposes."

"I don't know anything about your No. 26, and I don't want to," said
Dorothy, firmly.  "I'm not used to taking cast-off things, so I'll just
keep my own head."

"You refuse?" cried the Princess, with a frown.

"Of course I do," was the reply.

"Then," said Langwidere, "I shall lock you up in a tower until you
decide to obey me.  Nanda," turning to her maid, "call my army."

Nanda rang a silver bell, and at once a big fat colonel in a bright red
uniform entered the room, followed by ten lean soldiers, who all looked
sad and discouraged and saluted the princess in a very melancholy
fashion.

"Carry that girl to the North Tower and lock her up!" cried the
Princess, pointing to Dorothy.

"To hear is to obey," answered the big red colonel, and caught the
child by her arm.  But at that moment Tiktok raised his dinner-pail and
pounded it so forcibly against the colonel's head that the big officer
sat down upon the floor with a sudden bump, looking both dazed and very
much astonished.

"Help!" he shouted, and the ten lean soldiers sprang to assist their
leader.

There was great excitement for the next few moments, and Tiktok had
knocked down seven of the army, who were sprawling in every direction
upon the carpet, when suddenly the machine paused, with the dinner-pail
raised for another blow, and remained perfectly motionless.

"My ac-tion has run down," he called to Dorothy.  "Wind me up, quick."

She tried to obey, but the big colonel had by this time managed to get
upon his feet again, so he grabbed fast hold of the girl and she was
helpless to escape.

"This is too bad," said the machine.  "I ought to have run six hours
lon-ger, at least, but I sup-pose my long walk and my fight with the
Wheel-ers made me run down fast-er than us-u-al."

"Well, it can't be helped," said Dorothy, with a sigh.

"Will you exchange heads with me?" demanded the Princess.

"No, indeed!" cried Dorothy.

"Then lock her up," said Langwidere to her soldiers, and they led
Dorothy to a high tower at the north of the palace and locked her
securely within.

The soldiers afterward tried to lift Tiktok, but they found the machine
so solid and heavy that they could not stir it.  So they left him
standing in the center of the drawing-room.

"People will think I have a new statue," said Langwidere, "so it won't
matter in the least, and Nanda can keep him well polished."

"What shall we do with the hen?" asked the colonel, who had just
discovered Billina in the work-basket.

"Put her in the chicken-house," answered the Princess.  "Someday I'll
have her fried for breakfast."

"She looks rather tough, Your Highness," said Nanda, doubtfully.

"That is a base slander!" cried Billina, struggling frantically in the
colonel's arms.  "But the breed of chickens I come from is said to be
poison to all princesses."

"Then," remarked Langwidere, "I will not fry the hen, but keep her to
lay eggs; and if she doesn't do her duty I'll have her drowned in the
horse trough."




7.  Ozma of Oz to the Rescue


Nanda brought Dorothy bread and water for her supper, and she slept
upon a hard stone couch with a single pillow and a silken coverlet.

In the morning she leaned out of the window of her prison in the tower
to see if there was any way to escape.  The room was not so very high
up, when compared with our modern buildings, but it was far enough
above the trees and farm houses to give her a good view of the
surrounding country.

To the east she saw the forest, with the sands beyond it and the ocean
beyond that.  There was even a dark speck upon the shore that she
thought might be the chicken-coop in which she had arrived at this
singular country.

Then she looked to the north, and saw a deep but narrow valley lying
between two rocky mountains, and a third mountain that shut off the
valley at the further end.

Westward the fertile Land of Ev suddenly ended a little way from the
palace, and the girl could see miles and miles of sandy desert that
stretched further than her eyes could reach.  It was this desert, she
thought, with much interest, that alone separated her from the
wonderful Land of Oz, and she remembered sorrowfully that she had been
told no one had ever been able to cross this dangerous waste but
herself.  Once a cyclone had carried her across it, and a magical pair
of silver shoes had carried her back again.  But now she had neither a
cyclone nor silver shoes to assist her, and her condition was sad
indeed.  For she had become the prisoner of a disagreeable princess who
insisted that she must exchange her head for another one that she was
not used to, and which might not fit her at all.

Really, there seemed no hope of help for her from her old friends in
the Land of Oz.  Thoughtfully she gazed from her narrow window.  On all
the desert not a living thing was stirring.

Wait, though!  Something surely WAS stirring on the desert--something
her eyes had not observed at first.  Now it seemed like a cloud; now it
seemed like a spot of silver; now it seemed to be a mass of rainbow
colors that moved swiftly toward her.

What COULD it be, she wondered?

Then, gradually, but in a brief space of time nevertheless, the vision
drew near enough to Dorothy to make out what it was.

A broad green carpet was unrolling itself upon the desert, while
advancing across the carpet was a wonderful procession that made the
girl open her eyes in amazement as she gazed.

First came a magnificent golden chariot, drawn by a great Lion and an
immense Tiger, who stood shoulder to shoulder and trotted along as
gracefully as a well-matched team of thoroughbred horses.  And standing
upright within the chariot was a beautiful girl clothed in flowing
robes of silver gauze and wearing a jeweled diadem upon her dainty
head.  She held in one hand the satin ribbons that guided her
astonishing team, and in the other an ivory wand that separated at the
top into two prongs, the prongs being tipped by the letters "O" and
"Z", made of glistening diamonds set closely together.

The girl seemed neither older nor larger than Dorothy herself, and at
once the prisoner in the tower guessed that the lovely driver of the
chariot must be that Ozma of Oz of whom she had so lately heard from
Tiktok.

Following close behind the chariot Dorothy saw her old friend the
Scarecrow, riding calmly astride a wooden Saw-Horse, which pranced and
trotted as naturally as any meat horse could have done.

And then came Nick Chopper, the Tin Woodman, with his funnel-shaped cap
tipped carelessly over his left ear, his gleaming axe over his right
shoulder, and his whole body sparkling as brightly as it had ever done
in the old days when first she knew him.

The Tin Woodman was on foot, marching at the head of a company of
twenty-seven soldiers, of whom some were lean and some fat, some short
and some tall; but all the twenty-seven were dressed in handsome
uniforms of various designs and colors, no two being alike in any
respect.

Behind the soldiers the green carpet rolled itself up again, so that
there was always just enough of it for the procession to walk upon, in
order that their feet might not come in contact with the deadly,
life-destroying sands of the desert.

Dorothy knew at once it was a magic carpet she beheld, and her heart
beat high with hope and joy as she realized she was soon to be rescued
and allowed to greet her dearly beloved friends of Oz--the Scarecrow,
the Tin Woodman and the Cowardly Lion.

Indeed, the girl felt herself as good as rescued as soon as she
recognized those in the procession, for she well knew the courage and
loyalty of her old comrades, and also believed that any others who came
from their marvelous country would prove to be pleasant and reliable
acquaintances.

As soon as the last bit of desert was passed and all the procession,
from the beautiful and dainty Ozma to the last soldier, had reached the
grassy meadows of the Land of Ev, the magic carpet rolled itself
together and entirely disappeared.

Then the chariot driver turned her Lion and Tiger into a broad roadway
leading up to the palace, and the others followed, while Dorothy still
gazed from her tower window in eager excitement.

They came quite close to the front door of the palace and then halted,
the Scarecrow dismounting from his Saw-Horse to approach the sign
fastened to the door, that he might read what it said.

Dorothy, just above him, could keep silent no longer.

"Here I am!" she shouted, as loudly as she could.  "Here's Dorothy!"

"Dorothy who?" asked the Scarecrow, tipping his head to look upward
until he nearly lost his balance and tumbled over backward.

"Dorothy Gale, of course.  Your friend from Kansas," she answered.

"Why, hello, Dorothy!" said the Scarecrow.  "What in the world are you
doing up there?"

"Nothing," she called down, "because there's nothing to do.  Save me,
my friend--save me!"

"You seem to be quite safe now," replied the Scarecrow.

"But I'm a prisoner.  I'm locked in, so that I can't get out," she
pleaded.

"That's all right," said the Scarecrow.  "You might be worse off,
little Dorothy.  Just consider the matter.  You can't get drowned, or
be run over by a Wheeler, or fall out of an apple-tree.  Some folks
would think they were lucky to be up there."

"Well, I don't," declared the girl, "and I want to get down immed'i'tly
and see you and the Tin Woodman and the Cowardly Lion."

"Very well," said the Scarecrow, nodding.  "It shall be just as you
say, little friend.  Who locked you up?"

"The princess Langwidere, who is a horrid creature," she answered.

At this Ozma, who had been listening carefully to the conversation,
called to Dorothy from her chariot, asking:

"Why did the Princess lock you up, my dear?"

"Because," exclaimed Dorothy, "I wouldn't let her have my head for her
collection, and take an old, cast-off head in exchange for it."

"I do not blame you," exclaimed Ozma, promptly.  "I will see the
Princess at once, and oblige her to liberate you."

"Oh, thank you very, very much!" cried Dorothy, who as soon as she
heard the sweet voice of the girlish Ruler of Oz knew that she would
soon learn to love her dearly.

Ozma now drove her chariot around to the third door of the wing, upon
which the Tin Woodman boldly proceeded to knock.

As soon as the maid opened the door Ozma, bearing in her hand her ivory
wand, stepped into the hall and made her way at once to the
drawing-room, followed by all her company, except the Lion and the
Tiger.  And the twenty-seven soldiers made such a noise and a clatter
that the little maid Nanda ran away screaming to her mistress,
whereupon the Princess Langwidere, roused to great anger by this rude
invasion of her palace, came running into the drawing-room without any
assistance whatever.

There she stood before the slight and delicate form of the little girl
from Oz and cried out;--

"How dare you enter my palace unbidden?  Leave this room at once, or I
will bind you and all your people in chains, and throw you into my
darkest dungeons!"

"What a dangerous lady!" murmured the Scarecrow, in a soft voice.

"She seems a little nervous," replied the Tin Woodman.

But Ozma only smiled at the angry Princess.

"Sit down, please," she said, quietly.  "I have traveled a long way to
see you, and you must listen to what I have to say."

"Must!" screamed the Princess, her black eyes flashing with fury--for
she still wore her No. 17 head.  "Must, to ME!"

"To be sure," said Ozma.  "I am Ruler of the Land of Oz, and I am
powerful enough to destroy all your kingdom, if I so wish.  Yet I did
not come here to do harm, but rather to free the royal family of Ev
from the thrall of the Nome King, the news having reached me that he is
holding the Queen and her children prisoners."

Hearing these words, Langwidere suddenly became quiet.

"I wish you could, indeed, free my aunt and her ten royal children,"
said she, eagerly.  "For if they were restored to their proper forms
and station they could rule the Kingdom of Ev themselves, and that
would save me a lot of worry and trouble.  At present there are at
least ten minutes every day that I must devote to affairs of state, and
I would like to be able to spend my whole time in admiring my beautiful
heads."

"Then we will presently discuss this matter," said Ozma, "and try to
find a way to liberate your aunt and cousins.  But first you must
liberate another prisoner--the little girl you have locked up in your
tower."

"Of course," said Langwidere, readily.  "I had forgotten all about her.
That was yesterday, you know, and a Princess cannot be expected to
remember today what she did yesterday.  Come with me, and I will
release the prisoner at once."

So Ozma followed her, and they passed up the stairs that led to the
room in the tower.

While they were gone Ozma's followers remained in the drawing-room, and
the Scarecrow was leaning against a form that he had mistaken for a
copper statue when a harsh, metallic voice said suddenly in his ear:

"Get off my foot, please.  You are scratch-ing my pol-ish."

"Oh, excuse me!" he replied, hastily drawing back.  "Are you alive?"

"No," said Tiktok, "I am on-ly a ma-chine.  But I can think and speak
and act, when I am pro-per-ly wound up.  Just now my ac-tion is run
down, and Dor-o-thy has the key to it."

"That's all right," replied the Scarecrow.  "Dorothy will soon be free,
and then she'll attend to your works.  But it must be a great
misfortune not to be alive.  I'm sorry for you."

"Why?" asked Tiktok.

"Because you have no brains, as I have," said the Scarecrow.

"Oh, yes, I have," returned Tiktok.  "I am fit-ted with Smith &
Tin-ker's Im-proved Com-bi-na-tion Steel Brains.  They are what make me
think.  What sort of brains are you fit-ted with?"

"I don't know," admitted the Scarecrow.  "They were given to me by the
great Wizard of Oz, and I didn't get a chance to examine them before he
put them in.  But they work splendidly and my conscience is very
active.  Have you a conscience?"

"No," said Tiktok.

"And no heart, I suppose?" added the Tin Woodman, who had been
listening with interest to this conversation.

"No," said Tiktok.

"Then," continued the Tin Woodman, "I regret to say that you are
greatly inferior to my friend the Scarecrow, and to myself.  For we are
both alive, and he has brains which do not need to be wound up, while I
have an excellent heart that is continually beating in my bosom."

"I con-grat-u-late you," replied Tiktok.  "I can-not help be-ing your
in-fer-i-or for I am a mere ma-chine.  When I am wound up I do my du-ty
by go-ing just as my ma-chin-er-y is made to go.  You have no i-de-a
how full of ma-chin-er-y I am."

"I can guess," said the Scarecrow, looking at the machine man
curiously.  "Some day I'd like to take you apart and see just how you
are made."

"Do not do that, I beg of you," said Tiktok; "for you could not put me
to-geth-er a-gain, and my use-ful-ness would be de-stroyed."

"Oh! are you useful?" asked the Scarecrow, surprised.

"Ve-ry," said Tiktok.

"In that case," the Scarecrow kindly promised, "I won't fool with your
interior at all.  For I am a poor mechanic, and might mix you up."

"Thank you," said Tiktok.

Just then Ozma re-entered the room, leading Dorothy by the hand and
followed closely by the Princess Langwidere.




8.  The Hungry Tiger


The first thing Dorothy did was to rush into the embrace of the
Scarecrow, whose painted face beamed with delight as he pressed her
form to his straw-padded bosom.  Then the Tin Woodman embraced
her--very gently, for he knew his tin arms might hurt her if he
squeezed too roughly.

These greetings having been exchanged, Dorothy took the key to Tiktok
from her pocket and wound up the machine man's action, so that he could
bow properly when introduced to the rest of the company.  While doing
this she told them how useful Tiktok had been to her, and both the
Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman shook hands with the machine once more
and thanked him for protecting their friend.

Then Dorothy asked: "Where is Billina?"

"I don't know," said the Scarecrow.  "Who is Billina?"

"She's a yellow hen who is another friend of mine," answered the girl,
anxiously.  "I wonder what has become of her?"

"She is in the chicken house, in the back yard," said the Princess.
"My drawing-room is no place for hens."

Without waiting to hear more Dorothy ran to get Billina, and just
outside the door she came upon the Cowardly Lion, still hitched to the
chariot beside the great Tiger.  The Cowardly Lion had a big bow of
blue ribbon fastened to the long hair between his ears, and the Tiger
wore a bow of red ribbon on his tail, just in front of the bushy end.

In an instant Dorothy was hugging the huge Lion joyfully.

"I'm SO glad to see you again!" she cried.

"I am also glad to see you, Dorothy," said the Lion.  "We've had some
fine adventures together, haven't we?"

"Yes, indeed," she replied.  "How are you?"

"As cowardly as ever," the beast answered in a meek voice.  "Every
little thing scares me and makes my heart beat fast.  But let me
introduce to you a new friend of mine, the Hungry Tiger."

"Oh!  Are you hungry?" she asked, turning to the other beast, who was
just then yawning so widely that he displayed two rows of terrible
teeth and a mouth big enough to startle anyone.

"Dreadfully hungry," answered the Tiger, snapping his jaws together
with a fierce click.

"Then why don't you eat something?" she asked.

"It's no use," said the Tiger sadly.  "I've tried that, but I always
get hungry again."

"Why, it is the same with me," said Dorothy.  "Yet I keep on eating."

"But you eat harmless things, so it doesn't matter," replied the Tiger.
"For my part, I'm a savage beast, and have an appetite for all sorts of
poor little living creatures, from a chipmunk to fat babies."

"How dreadful!" said Dorothy.

"Isn't it, though?" returned the Hungry Tiger, licking his lips with
his long red tongue.  "Fat babies!  Don't they sound delicious?  But
I've never eaten any, because my conscience tells me it is wrong.  If I
had no conscience I would probably eat the babies and then get hungry
again, which would mean that I had sacrificed the poor babies for
nothing.  No; hungry I was born, and hungry I shall die.  But I'll not
have any cruel deeds on my conscience to be sorry for."

"I think you are a very good tiger," said Dorothy, patting the huge
head of the beast.

"In that you are mistaken," was the reply.  "I am a good beast,
perhaps, but a disgracefully bad tiger.  For it is the nature of tigers
to be cruel and ferocious, and in refusing to eat harmless living
creatures I am acting as no good tiger has ever before acted.  That is
why I left the forest and joined my friend the Cowardly Lion."

"But the Lion is not really cowardly," said Dorothy.  "I have seen him
act as bravely as can be."

"All a mistake, my dear," protested the Lion gravely.  "To others I may
have seemed brave, at times, but I have never been in any danger that I
was not afraid."

"Nor I," said Dorothy, truthfully. "But I must go and set free Billina,
and then I will see you again."

She ran around to the back yard of the palace and soon found the
chicken house, being guided to it by a loud cackling and crowing and a
distracting hubbub of sounds such as chickens make when they are
excited.

Something seemed to be wrong in the chicken house, and when Dorothy
looked through the slats in the door she saw a group of hens and
roosters huddled in one corner and watching what appeared to be a
whirling ball of feathers.  It bounded here and there about the chicken
house, and at first Dorothy could not tell what it was, while the
screeching of the chickens nearly deafened her.

But suddenly the bunch of feathers stopped whirling, and then, to her
amazement, the girl saw Billina crouching upon the prostrate form of a
speckled rooster.  For an instant they both remained motionless, and
then the yellow hen shook her wings to settle the feathers and walked
toward the door with a strut of proud defiance and a cluck of victory,
while the speckled rooster limped away to the group of other chickens,
trailing his crumpled plumage in the dust as he went.

"Why, Billina!" cried Dorothy, in a shocked voice; "have you been
fighting?"

"I really think I have," retorted Billina.  "Do you think I'd let that
speckled villain of a rooster lord it over ME, and claim to run this
chicken house, as long as I'm able to peck and scratch?  Not if my name
is Bill!"

"It isn't Bill, it's Billina; and you're talking slang, which is very
undig'n'fied," said Dorothy, reprovingly.  "Come here, Billina, and
I'll let you out; for Ozma of Oz is here, and has set us free."

So the yellow hen came to the door, which Dorothy unlatched for her to
pass through, and the other chickens silently watched them from their
corner without offering to approach nearer.

The girl lifted her friend in her arms and exclaimed:

"Oh, Billina! how dreadful you look.  You've lost a lot of feathers,
and one of your eyes is nearly pecked out, and your comb is bleeding!"

"That's nothing," said Billina.  "Just look at the speckled rooster!
Didn't I do him up brown?"

Dorothy shook her head.

"I don't 'prove of this, at all," she said, carrying Billina away
toward the palace.  "It isn't a good thing for you to 'sociate with
those common chickens.  They would soon spoil your good manners, and
you wouldn't be respec'able any more."

"I didn't ask to associate with them," replied Billina.  "It is that
cross old Princess who is to blame.  But I was raised in the United
States, and I won't allow any one-horse chicken of the Land of Ev to
run over me and put on airs, as long as I can lift a claw in
self-defense."

"Very well, Billina," said Dorothy.  "We won't talk about it any more."

Soon they came to the Cowardly Lion and the Hungry Tiger to whom the
girl introduced the Yellow Hen.

"Glad to meet any friend of Dorothy's," said the Lion, politely.  "To
judge by your present appearance, you are not a coward, as I am."

"Your present appearance makes my mouth water," said the Tiger, looking
at Billina greedily.  "My, my! how good you would taste if I could only
crunch you between my jaws.  But don't worry.  You would only appease
my appetite for a moment; so it isn't worth while to eat you."

"Thank you," said the hen, nestling closer in Dorothy's arms.

"Besides, it wouldn't be right," continued the Tiger, looking steadily
at Billina and clicking his jaws together.

"Of course not," cried Dorothy, hastily.  "Billina is my friend, and
you mustn't ever eat her under any circ'mstances."

"I'll try to remember that," said the Tiger; "but I'm a little
absent-minded, at times."

Then Dorothy carried her pet into the drawing-room of the palace, where
Tiktok, being invited to do so by Ozma, had seated himself between the
Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman.  Opposite to them sat Ozma herself and
the Princess Langwidere, and beside them there was a vacant chair for
Dorothy.

Around this important group was ranged the Army of Oz, and as Dorothy
looked at the handsome uniforms of the Twenty-Seven she said:

"Why, they seem to be all officers."

"They are, all except one," answered the Tin Woodman.  "I have in my
Army eight Generals, six Colonels, seven Majors and five Captains,
besides one private for them to command.  I'd like to promote the
private, for I believe no private should ever be in public life; and
I've also noticed that officers usually fight better and are more
reliable than common soldiers.  Besides, the officers are more
important looking, and lend dignity to our army."

"No doubt you are right," said Dorothy, seating herself beside Ozma.

"And now," announced the girlish Ruler of Oz, "we will hold a solemn
conference to decide the best manner of liberating the royal family of
this fair Land of Ev from their long imprisonment."




9.  The Royal Family of Ev


The Tin Woodman was the first to address the meeting.

"To begin with," said he, "word came to our noble and illustrious
Ruler, Ozma of Oz, that the wife and ten children--five boys and five
girls--of the former King of Ev, by name Evoldo, have been enslaved by
the Nome King and are held prisoners in his underground palace.  Also
that there was no one in Ev powerful enough to release them.  Naturally
our Ozma wished to undertake the adventure of liberating the poor
prisoners; but for a long time she could find no way to cross the great
desert between the two countries.  Finally she went to a friendly
sorceress of our land named Glinda the Good, who heard the story and at
once presented Ozma a magic carpet, which would continually unroll
beneath our feet and so make a comfortable path for us to cross the
desert.  As soon as she had received the carpet our gracious Ruler
ordered me to assemble our army, which I did.  You behold in these bold
warriors the pick of all the finest soldiers of Oz; and, if we are
obliged to fight the Nome King, every officer as well as the private,
will battle fiercely unto death."

Then Tiktok spoke.

"Why should you fight the Nome King?" he asked.  "He has done no wrong."

"No wrong!" cried Dorothy.  "Isn't it wrong to imprison a queen mother
and her ten children?"

"They were sold to the Nome King by King Ev-ol-do," replied Tiktok.
"It was the King of Ev who did wrong, and when he re-al-ized what he
had done he jumped in-to the sea and drowned him-self."

"This is news to me," said Ozma, thoughtfully.  "I had supposed the
Nome King was all to blame in the matter.  But, in any case, he must be
made to liberate the prisoners."

"My uncle Evoldo was a very wicked man," declared the Princess
Langwidere.  "If he had drowned himself before he sold his family, no
one would have cared.  But he sold them to the powerful Nome King in
exchange for a long life, and afterward destroyed the life by jumping
into the sea."

"Then," said Ozma, "he did not get the long life, and the Nome King
must give up the prisoners.  Where are they confined?"

"No one knows, exactly," replied the Princess.  "For the king, whose
name is Roquat of the Rocks, owns a splendid palace underneath the
great mountain which is at the north end of this kingdom, and he has
transformed the queen and her children into ornaments and bric-a-brac
with which to decorate his rooms."

"I'd like to know," said Dorothy, "who this Nome King is?"

"I will tell you," replied Ozma.  "He is said to be the Ruler of the
Underground World, and commands the rocks and all that the rocks
contain.  Under his rule are many thousands of the Nomes, who are
queerly shaped but powerful sprites that labor at the furnaces and
forges of their king, making gold and silver and other metals which
they conceal in the crevices of the rocks, so that those living upon
the earth's surface can only find them with great difficulty.  Also
they make diamonds and rubies and emeralds, which they hide in the
ground; so that the kingdom of the Nomes is wonderfully rich, and all
we have of precious stones and silver and gold is what we take from the
earth and rocks where the Nome King has hidden them."

"I understand," said Dorothy, nodding her little head wisely.

"For the reason that we often steal his treasures," continued Ozma,
"the Ruler of the Underground World is not fond of those who live upon
the earth's surface, and never appears among us.  If we wish to see
King Roquat of the Rocks, we must visit his own country, where he is
all powerful, and therefore it will be a dangerous undertaking."

"But, for the sake of the poor prisoners," said Dorothy, "we ought to
do it."

"We shall do it," replied the Scarecrow, "although it requires a lot of
courage for me to go near to the furnaces of the Nome King.  For I am
only stuffed with straw, and a single spark of fire might destroy me
entirely."

"The furnaces may also melt my tin," said the Tin Woodman; "but I am
going."

"I can't bear heat," remarked the Princess Langwidere, yawning lazily,
"so I shall stay at home.  But I wish you may have success in your
undertaking, for I am heartily tired of ruling this stupid kingdom, and
I need more leisure in which to admire my beautiful heads."

"We do not need you," said Ozma.  "For, if with the aid of my brave
followers I cannot accomplish my purpose, then it would be useless for
you to undertake the journey."

"Quite true," sighed the Princess.  "So, if you'll excuse me, I will
now retire to my cabinet.  I've worn this head quite awhile, and I want
to change it for another."

When she had left them (and you may be sure no one was sorry to see her
go) Ozma said to Tiktok:

"Will you join our party?"

"I am the slave of the girl Dor-oth-y, who rescued me from pris-on,"
replied the machine.  "Where she goes I will go."

"Oh, I am going with my friends, of course," said Dorothy, quickly.  "I
wouldn't miss the fun for anything.  Will you go, too, Billina?"

"To be sure," said Billina in a careless tone.  She was smoothing down
the feathers of her back and not paying much attention.

"Heat is just in her line," remarked the Scarecrow.  "If she is nicely
roasted, she will be better than ever."

"Then" said Ozma, "we will arrange to start for the Kingdom of the
Nomes at daybreak tomorrow.  And, in the meantime, we will rest and
prepare ourselves for the journey."

Although Princess Langwidere did not again appear to her guests, the
palace servants waited upon the strangers from Oz and did everything in
their power to make the party comfortable.  There were many vacant
rooms at their disposal, and the brave Army of twenty-seven was easily
provided for and liberally feasted.

The Cowardly Lion and the Hungry Tiger were unharnessed from the
chariot and allowed to roam at will throughout the palace, where they
nearly frightened the servants into fits, although they did no harm at
all.  At one time Dorothy found the little maid Nanda crouching in
terror in a corner, with the Hungry Tiger standing before her.

"You certainly look delicious," the beast was saying.  "Will you kindly
give me permission to eat you?"

"No, no, no!" cried the maid in reply.

"Then," said the Tiger, yawning frightfully, "please to get me about
thirty pounds of tenderloin steak, cooked rare, with a peck of boiled
potatoes on the side, and five gallons of ice-cream for dessert."

"I--I'll do the best I can!" said Nanda, and she ran away as fast as
she could go.

"Are you so very hungry?" asked Dorothy, in wonder.

"You can hardly imagine the size of my appetite," replied the Tiger,
sadly.  "It seems to fill my whole body, from the end of my throat to
the tip of my tail.  I am very sure the appetite doesn't fit me, and is
too large for the size of my body.  Some day, when I meet a dentist
with a pair of forceps, I'm going to have it pulled."

"What, your tooth?" asked Dorothy.

"No, my appetite," said the Hungry Tiger.

The little girl spent most of the afternoon talking with the Scarecrow
and the Tin Woodman, who related to her all that had taken place in the
Land of Oz since Dorothy had left it.  She was much interested in the
story of Ozma, who had been, when a baby, stolen by a wicked old witch
and transformed into a boy.  She did not know that she had ever been a
girl until she was restored to her natural form by a kind sorceress.
Then it was found that she was the only child of the former Ruler of
Oz, and was entitled to rule in his place.  Ozma had many adventures,
however, before she regained her father's throne, and in these she was
accompanied by a pumpkin-headed man, a highly magnified and thoroughly
educated Woggle-Bug, and a wonderful sawhorse that had been brought to
life by means of a magic powder.  The Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman had
also assisted her; but the Cowardly Lion, who ruled the great forest as
the King of Beasts, knew nothing of Ozma until after she became the
reigning princess of Oz.  Then he journeyed to the Emerald City to see
her, and on hearing she was about to visit the Land of Ev to set free
the royal family of that country, the Cowardly Lion begged to go with
her, and brought along his friend, the Hungry Tiger, as well.

Having heard this story, Dorothy related to them her own adventures,
and then went out with her friends to find the Sawhorse, which Ozma had
caused to be shod with plates of gold, so that its legs would not wear
out.

They came upon the Sawhorse standing motionless beside the garden gate,
but when Dorothy was introduced to him he bowed politely and blinked
his eyes, which were knots of wood, and wagged his tail, which was only
the branch of a tree.

"What a remarkable thing, to be alive!" exclaimed Dorothy.

"I quite agree with you," replied the Sawhorse, in a rough but not
unpleasant voice.  "A creature like me has no business to live, as we
all know.  But it was the magic powder that did it, so I cannot justly
be blamed."

"Of course not," said Dorothy.  "And you seem to be of some use, 'cause
I noticed the Scarecrow riding upon your back."

"Oh, yes; I'm of use," returned the Sawhorse; "and I never tire, never
have to be fed, or cared for in any way."

"Are you intel'gent?" asked the girl.

"Not very," said the creature.  "It would be foolish to waste
intelligence on a common Sawhorse, when so many professors need it.
But I know enough to obey my masters, and to gid-dup, or whoa, when I'm
told to.  So I'm pretty well satisfied."

That night Dorothy slept in a pleasant little bed-chamber next to that
occupied by Ozma of Oz, and Billina perched upon the foot of the bed
and tucked her head under her wing and slept as soundly in that
position as did Dorothy upon her soft cushions.

But before daybreak every one was awake and stirring, and soon the
adventurers were eating a hasty breakfast in the great dining-room of
the palace.  Ozma sat at the head of a long table, on a raised
platform, with Dorothy on her right hand and the Scarecrow on her left.
The Scarecrow did not eat, of course; but Ozma placed him near her so
that she might ask his advice about the journey while she ate.

Lower down the table were the twenty-seven warriors of Oz, and at the
end of the room the Lion and the Tiger were eating out of a kettle that
had been placed upon the floor, while Billina fluttered around to pick
up any scraps that might be scattered.

It did not take long to finish the meal, and then the Lion and the
Tiger were harnessed to the chariot and the party was ready to start
for the Nome King's Palace.

First rode Ozma, with Dorothy beside her in the golden chariot and
holding Billina fast in her arms.  Then came the Scarecrow on the
Sawhorse, with the Tin Woodman and Tiktok marching side by side just
behind him.  After these tramped the Army, looking brave and handsome
in their splendid uniforms.  The generals commanded the colonels and
the colonels commanded the majors and the majors commanded the captains
and the captains commanded the private, who marched with an air of
proud importance because it required so many officers to give him his
orders.

And so the magnificent procession left the palace and started along the
road just as day was breaking, and by the time the sun came out they
had made good progress toward the valley that led to the Nome King's
domain.




10.  The Giant with the Hammer


The road led for a time through a pretty farm country, and then past a
picnic grove that was very inviting.  But the procession continued to
steadily advance until Billina cried in an abrupt and commanding manner:

"Wait--wait!"

Ozma stopped her chariot so suddenly that the Scarecrow's Sawhorse
nearly ran into it, and the ranks of the army tumbled over one another
before they could come to a halt.  Immediately the yellow hen struggled
from Dorothy's arms and flew into a clump of bushes by the roadside.

"What's the matter?" called the Tin Woodman, anxiously.

"Why, Billina wants to lay her egg, that's all," said Dorothy.

"Lay her egg!" repeated the Tin Woodman, in astonishment.

"Yes; she lays one every morning, about this time; and it's quite
fresh," said the girl.

"But does your foolish old hen suppose that this entire cavalcade,
which is bound on an important adventure, is going to stand still while
she lays her egg?" enquired the Tin Woodman, earnestly.

"What else can we do?" asked the girl.  "It's a habit of Billina's and
she can't break herself of it."

"Then she must hurry up," said the Tin Woodman, impatiently.

"No, no!" exclaimed the Scarecrow.  "If she hurries she may lay
scrambled eggs."

"That's nonsense," said Dorothy.  "But Billina won't be long, I'm sure."

So they stood and waited, although all were restless and anxious to
proceed.  And by and by the yellow hen came from the bushes saying:

"Kut-kut, kut, ka-daw-kutt!  Kut, kut, kut--ka-daw-kut!"

"What is she doing--singing her lay?" asked the Scarecrow.

"For-ward--march!" shouted the Tin Woodman, waving his axe, and the
procession started just as Dorothy had once more grabbed Billina in her
arms.

"Isn't anyone going to get my egg?" cried the hen, in great excitement.

"I'll get it," said the Scarecrow; and at his command the Sawhorse
pranced into the bushes.  The straw man soon found the egg, which he
placed in his jacket pocket.  The cavalcade, having moved rapidly on,
was even then far in advance; but it did not take the Sawhorse long to
catch up with it, and presently the Scarecrow was riding in his
accustomed place behind Ozma's chariot.

"What shall I do with the egg?" he asked Dorothy.

"I do not know," the girl answered.  "Perhaps the Hungry Tiger would
like it."

"It would not be enough to fill one of my back teeth," remarked the
Tiger.  "A bushel of them, hard boiled, might take a little of the edge
off my appetite; but one egg isn't good for anything at all, that I
know of."

"No; it wouldn't even make a sponge cake," said the Scarecrow,
thoughtfully.  "The Tin Woodman might carry it with his axe and hatch
it; but after all I may as well keep it myself for a souvenir."  So he
left it in his pocket.

They had now reached that part of the valley that lay between the two
high mountains which Dorothy had seen from her tower window.  At the
far end was the third great mountain, which blocked the valley and was
the northern edge of the Land of Ev.  It was underneath this mountain
that the Nome King's palace was said to be; but it would be some time
before they reached that place.

The path was becoming rocky and difficult for the wheels of the chariot
to pass over, and presently a deep gulf appeared at their feet which
was too wide for them to leap.  So Ozma took a small square of green
cloth from her pocket and threw it upon the ground.  At once it became
the magic carpet, and unrolled itself far enough for all the cavalcade
to walk upon.  The chariot now advanced, and the green carpet unrolled
before it, crossing the gulf on a level with its banks, so that all
passed over in safety.

"That's easy enough," said the Scarecrow.  "I wonder what will happen
next."

He was not long in making the discovery, for the sides of the mountain
came closer together until finally there was but a narrow path between
them, along which Ozma and her party were forced to pass in single file.

They now heard a low and deep "thump!--thump!--thump!" which echoed
throughout the valley and seemed to grow louder as they advanced.
Then, turning a corner of rock, they saw before them a huge form, which
towered above the path for more than a hundred feet.  The form was that
of a gigantic man built out of plates of cast iron, and it stood with
one foot on either side of the narrow road and swung over its right
shoulder an immense iron mallet, with which it constantly pounded the
earth.  These resounding blows explained the thumping sounds they had
heard, for the mallet was much bigger than a barrel, and where it
struck the path between the rocky sides of the mountain it filled all
the space through which our travelers would be obliged to pass.

Of course they at once halted, a safe distance away from the terrible
iron mallet.  The magic carpet would do them no good in this case, for
it was only meant to protect them from any dangers upon the ground
beneath their feet, and not from dangers that appeared in the air above
them.

"Wow!" said the Cowardly Lion, with a shudder.  "It makes me dreadfully
nervous to see that big hammer pounding so near my head.  One blow
would crush me into a door-mat."

"The ir-on gi-ant is a fine fel-low," said Tiktok, "and works as
stead-i-ly as a clock.  He was made for the Nome King by Smith &
Tin-ker, who made me, and his du-ty is to keep folks from find-ing the
un-der-ground pal-ace.  Is he not a great work of art?"

"Can he think, and speak, as you do?" asked Ozma, regarding the giant
with wondering eyes.

"No," replied the machine; "he is on-ly made to pound the road, and has
no think-ing or speak-ing at-tach-ment.  But he pounds ve-ry well, I
think."

"Too well," observed the Scarecrow.  "He is keeping us from going
farther.  Is there no way to stop his machinery?"

"On-ly the Nome King, who has the key, can do that," answered Tiktok.

"Then," said Dorothy, anxiously, "what shall we do?"

"Excuse me for a few minutes," said the Scarecrow, "and I will think it
over."

He retired, then, to a position in the rear, where he turned his
painted face to the rocks and began to think.

Meantime the giant continued to raise his iron mallet high in the air
and to strike the path terrific blows that echoed through the mountains
like the roar of a cannon.  Each time the mallet lifted, however, there
was a moment when the path beneath the monster was free, and perhaps
the Scarecrow had noticed this, for when he came back to the others he
said:

"The matter is a very simple one, after all.  We have but to run under
the hammer, one at a time, when it is lifted, and pass to the other
side before it falls again."

"It will require quick work, if we escape the blow," said the Tin
Woodman, with a shake of his head.  "But it really seems the only thing
to be done.  Who will make the first attempt?"

They looked at one another hesitatingly for a moment.  Then the
Cowardly Lion, who was trembling like a leaf in the wind, said to them:

"I suppose the head of the procession must go first--and that's me.
But I'm terribly afraid of the big hammer!"

"What will become of me?" asked Ozma.  "You might rush under the hammer
yourself, but the chariot would surely be crushed."

"We must leave the chariot," said the Scarecrow.  "But you two girls
can ride upon the backs of the Lion and the Tiger."

So this was decided upon, and Ozma, as soon as the Lion was unfastened
from the chariot, at once mounted the beast's back and said she was
ready.

"Cling fast to his mane," advised Dorothy.  "I used to ride him myself,
and that's the way I held on."

So Ozma clung fast to the mane, and the lion crouched in the path and
eyed the swinging mallet carefully until he knew just the instant it
would begin to rise in the air.

Then, before anyone thought he was ready, he made a sudden leap
straight between the iron giant's legs, and before the mallet struck
the ground again the Lion and Ozma were safe on the other side.

The Tiger went next.  Dorothy sat upon his back and locked her arms
around his striped neck, for he had no mane to cling to.  He made the
leap straight and true as an arrow from a bow, and ere Dorothy realized
it she was out of danger and standing by Ozma's side.

Now came the Scarecrow on the Sawhorse, and while they made the dash in
safety they were within a hair's breadth of being caught by the
descending hammer.

Tiktok walked up to the very edge of the spot the hammer struck, and as
it was raised for the next blow he calmly stepped forward and escaped
its descent.  That was an idea for the Tin Woodman to follow, and he
also crossed in safety while the great hammer was in the air.  But when
it came to the twenty-six officers and the private, their knees were so
weak that they could not walk a step.

"In battle we are wonderfully courageous," said one of the generals,
"and our foes find us very terrible to face.  But war is one thing and
this is another.  When it comes to being pounded upon the head by an
iron hammer, and smashed into pancakes, we naturally object."

"Make a run for it," urged the Scarecrow.

"Our knees shake so that we cannot run," answered a captain.  "If we
should try it we would all certainly be pounded to a jelly."

"Well, well," sighed the Cowardly Lion, "I see, friend Tiger, that we
must place ourselves in great danger to rescue this bold army.  Come
with me, and we will do the best we can."

So, Ozma and Dorothy having already dismounted from their backs, the
Lion and the Tiger leaped back again under the awful hammer and
returned with two generals clinging to their necks.  They repeated this
daring passage twelve times, when all the officers had been carried
beneath the giant's legs and landed safely on the further side.  By
that time the beasts were very tired, and panted so hard that their
tongues hung out of their great mouths.

"But what is to become of the private?" asked Ozma.

"Oh, leave him there to guard the chariot," said the Lion.  "I'm tired
out, and won't pass under that mallet again."

The officers at once protested that they must have the private with
them, else there would be no one for them to command.  But neither the
Lion or the Tiger would go after him, and so the Scarecrow sent the
Sawhorse.

Either the wooden horse was careless, or it failed to properly time the
descent of the hammer, for the mighty weapon caught it squarely upon
its head, and thumped it against the ground so powerfully that the
private flew off its back high into the air, and landed upon one of the
giant's cast-iron arms.  Here he clung desperately while the arm rose
and fell with each one of the rapid strokes.

The Scarecrow dashed in to rescue his Sawhorse, and had his left foot
smashed by the hammer before he could pull the creature out of danger.
They then found that the Sawhorse had been badly dazed by the blow; for
while the hard wooden knot of which his head was formed could not be
crushed by the hammer, both his ears were broken off and he would be
unable to hear a sound until some new ones were made for him.  Also his
left knee was cracked, and had to be bound up with a string.

Billina having fluttered under the hammer, it now remained only to
rescue the private who was riding upon the iron giant's arm, high in
the air.

The Scarecrow lay flat upon the ground and called to the man to jump
down upon his body, which was soft because it was stuffed with straw.
This the private managed to do, waiting until a time when he was
nearest the ground and then letting himself drop upon the Scarecrow.
He accomplished the feat without breaking any bones, and the Scarecrow
declared he was not injured in the least.

Therefore, the Tin Woodman having by this time fitted new ears to the
Sawhorse, the entire party proceeded upon its way, leaving the giant to
pound the path behind them.




11.  The Nome King


By and by, when they drew near to the mountain that blocked their path
and which was the furthermost edge of the Kingdom of Ev, the way grew
dark and gloomy for the reason that the high peaks on either side shut
out the sunshine.  And it was very silent, too, as there were no birds
to sing or squirrels to chatter, the trees being left far behind them
and only the bare rocks remaining.

Ozma and Dorothy were a little awed by the silence, and all the others
were quiet and grave except the Sawhorse, which, as it trotted along
with the Scarecrow upon his back, hummed a queer song, of which this
was the chorus:

  "Would a wooden horse in a woodland go?
    Aye, aye!  I sigh, he would, although
  Had he not had a wooden head
    He'd mount the mountain top instead."


But no one paid any attention to this because they were now close to
the Nome King's dominions, and his splendid underground palace could
not be very far away.

Suddenly they heard a shout of jeering laughter, and stopped short.
They would have to stop in a minute, anyway, for the huge mountain
barred their further progress and the path ran close up to a wall of
rock and ended.

"Who was that laughing?" asked Ozma.

There was no reply, but in the gloom they could see strange forms flit
across the face of the rock.  Whatever the creations might be they
seemed very like the rock itself, for they were the color of rocks and
their shapes were as rough and rugged as if they had been broken away
from the side of the mountain.  They kept close to the steep cliff
facing our friends, and glided up and down, and this way and that, with
a lack of regularity that was quite confusing.  And they seemed not to
need places to rest their feet, but clung to the surface of the rock as
a fly does to a window-pane, and were never still for a moment.

"Do not mind them," said Tiktok, as Dorothy shrank back.  "They are
on-ly the Nomes."

"And what are Nomes?" asked the girl, half frightened.

"They are rock fair-ies, and serve the Nome King," replied the machine.
"But they will do us no harm.  You must call for the King, be-cause
with-out him you can ne-ver find the en-trance to the pal-ace."

"YOU call," said Dorothy to Ozma.

Just then the Nomes laughed again, and the sound was so weird and
disheartening that the twenty-six officers commanded the private to
"right-about-face!" and they all started to run as fast as they could.

The Tin Woodman at once pursued his army and cried "halt!" and when
they had stopped their flight he asked: "Where are you going?"

"I--I find I've forgotten the brush for my whiskers," said a general,
trembling with fear.  "S-s-so we are g-going back after it!"

"That is impossible," replied the Tin Woodman.  "For the giant with the
hammer would kill you all if you tried to pass him."

"Oh! I'd forgotten the giant," said the general, turning pale.

"You seem to forget a good many things," remarked the Tin Woodman.  "I
hope you won't forget that you are brave men."

"Never!" cried the general, slapping his gold-embroidered chest.

"Never!" cried all the other officers, indignantly slapping their
chests.

"For my part," said the private, meekly, "I must obey my officers; so
when I am told to run, I run; and when I am told to fight, I fight."

"That is right," agreed the Tin Woodman.  "And now you must all come
back to Ozma, and obey HER orders.  And if you try to run away again I
will have her reduce all the twenty-six officers to privates, and make
the private your general."

This terrible threat so frightened them that they at once returned to
where Ozma was standing beside the Cowardly Lion.

Then Ozma cried out in a loud voice:

"I demand that the Nome King appear to us!"

There was no reply, except that the shifting Nomes upon the mountain
laughed in derision.

"You must not command the Nome King," said Tiktok, "for you do not rule
him, as you do your own peo-ple."

So Ozma called again, saying:

"I request the Nome King to appear to us."

Only the mocking laughter replied to her, and the shadowy Nomes
continued to flit here and there upon the rocky cliff.

"Try en-treat-y," said Tiktok to Ozma.  "If he will not come at your
re-quest, then the Nome King may list-en to your plead-ing."

Ozma looked around her proudly.

"Do you wish your ruler to plead with this wicked Nome King?" she
asked.  "Shall Ozma of Oz humble herself to a creature who lives in an
underground kingdom?"

"No!" they all shouted, with big voices; and the Scarecrow added:

"If he will not come, we will dig him out of his hole, like a fox, and
conquer his stubbornness.  But our sweet little ruler must always
maintain her dignity, just as I maintain mine."

"I'm not afraid to plead with him," said Dorothy.  "I'm only a little
girl from Kansas, and we've got more dignity at home than we know what
to do with.  I'LL call the Nome King."

"Do," said the Hungry Tiger; "and if he makes hash of you I'll
willingly eat you for breakfast tomorrow morning."

So Dorothy stepped forward and said:

"PLEASE Mr. Nome King, come here and see us."

The Nomes started to laugh again; but a low growl came from the
mountain, and in a flash they had all vanished from sight and were
silent.

Then a door in the rock opened, and a voice cried:

"Enter!"

"Isn't it a trick?" asked the Tin Woodman.

"Never mind," replied Ozma.  "We came here to rescue the poor Queen of
Ev and her ten children, and we must run some risks to do so."

"The Nome King is hon-est and good na-tured," said Tiktok.  "You can
trust him to do what is right."

So Ozma led the way, hand in hand with Dorothy, and they passed through
the arched doorway of rock and entered a long passage which was lighted
by jewels set in the walls and having lamps behind them.  There was no
one to escort them, or to show them the way, but all the party pressed
through the passage until they came to a round, domed cavern that was
grandly furnished.

In the center of this room was a throne carved out of a solid boulder
of rock, rude and rugged in shape but glittering with great rubies and
diamonds and emeralds on every part of its surface.  And upon the
throne sat the Nome King.

This important monarch of the Underground World was a little fat man
clothed in gray-brown garments that were the exact color of the rock
throne in which he was seated.  His bushy hair and flowing beard were
also colored like the rocks, and so was his face.  He wore no crown of
any sort, and his only ornament was a broad, jewel-studded belt that
encircled his fat little body.  As for his features, they seemed kindly
and good humored, and his eyes were turned merrily upon his visitors as
Ozma and Dorothy stood before him with their followers ranged in close
order behind them.

"Why, he looks just like Santa Claus--only he isn't the same color!"
whispered Dorothy to her friend; but the Nome King heard the speech,
and it made him laugh aloud.

  "'He had a red face and a round little belly
    That shook when he laughed like a bowl full of jelly!'"


quoth the monarch, in a pleasant voice; and they could all see that he
really did shake like jelly when he laughed.

Both Ozma and Dorothy were much relieved to find the Nome King so
jolly, and a minute later he waved his right hand and the girls each
found a cushioned stool at her side.

"Sit down, my dears," said the King, "and tell me why you have come all
this way to see me, and what I can do to make you happy."

While they seated themselves the Nome King picked up a pipe, and taking
a glowing red coal out of his pocket he placed it in the bowl of the
pipe and began puffing out clouds of smoke that curled in rings above
his head.  Dorothy thought this made the little monarch look more like
Santa Claus than ever; but Ozma now began speaking, and every one
listened intently to her words.

"Your Majesty," said she, "I am the ruler of the Land of Oz, and I have
come here to ask you to release the good Queen of Ev and her ten
children, whom you have enchanted and hold as your prisoners."

"Oh, no; you are mistaken about that," replied the King.  "They are not
my prisoners, but my slaves, whom I purchased from the King of Ev."

"But that was wrong," said Ozma.

"According to the laws of Ev, the king can do no wrong," answered the
monarch, eying a ring of smoke he had just blown from his mouth; "so
that he had a perfect right to sell his family to me in exchange for a
long life."

"You cheated him, though," declared Dorothy; "for the King of Ev did
not have a long life.  He jumped into the sea and was drowned."

"That was not my fault," said the Nome King, crossing his legs and
smiling contentedly.  "I gave him the long life, all right; but he
destroyed it."

"Then how could it be a long life?" asked Dorothy.

"Easily enough," was the reply.  "Now suppose, my dear, that I gave you
a pretty doll in exchange for a lock of your hair, and that after you
had received the doll you smashed it into pieces and destroyed it.
Could you say that I had not given you a pretty doll?"

"No," answered Dorothy.

"And could you, in fairness, ask me to return to you the lock of hair,
just because you had smashed the doll?"

"No," said Dorothy, again.

"Of course not," the Nome King returned.  "Nor will I give up the Queen
and her children because the King of Ev destroyed his long life by
jumping into the sea.  They belong to me and I shall keep them."

"But you are treating them cruelly," said Ozma, who was much distressed
by the King's refusal.

"In what way?" he asked.

"By making them your slaves," said she.

"Cruelty," remarked the monarch, puffing out wreathes of smoke and
watching them float into the air, "is a thing I can't abide.  So, as
slaves must work hard, and the Queen of Ev and her children were
delicate and tender, I transformed them all into articles of ornament
and bric-a-brac and scattered them around the various rooms of my
palace.  Instead of being obliged to labor, they merely decorate my
apartments, and I really think I have treated them with great kindness."

"But what a dreadful fate is theirs!" exclaimed Ozma, earnestly.  "And
the Kingdom of Ev is in great need of its royal family to govern it.
If you will liberate them, and restore them to their proper forms, I
will give you ten ornaments to replace each one you lose."

The Nome King looked grave.

"Suppose I refuse?" he asked.

"Then," said Ozma, firmly, "I am here with my friends and my army to
conquer your kingdom and oblige you to obey my wishes."

The Nome King laughed until he choked; and he choked until he coughed;
and he coughed until his face turned from grayish-brown to bright red.
And then he wiped his eyes with a rock-colored handkerchief and grew
grave again.

"You are as brave as you are pretty, my dear," he said to Ozma.  "But
you have little idea of the extent of the task you have undertaken.
Come with me for a moment."

He arose and took Ozma's hand, leading her to a little door at one side
of the room.  This he opened and they stepped out upon a balcony, from
whence they obtained a wonderful view of the Underground World.

A vast cave extended for miles and miles under the mountain, and in
every direction were furnaces and forges glowing brightly and Nomes
hammering upon precious metals or polishing gleaming jewels.  All
around the walls of the cave were thousands of doors of silver and
gold, built into the solid rock, and these extended in rows far away
into the distance, as far as Ozma's eyes could follow them.

While the little maid from Oz gazed wonderingly upon this scene the
Nome King uttered a shrill whistle, and at once all the silver and gold
doors flew open and solid ranks of Nome soldiers marched out from every
one.  So great were their numbers that they quickly filled the immense
underground cavern and forced the busy workmen to abandon their tasks.

Although this tremendous army consisted of rock-colored Nomes, all
squat and fat, they were clothed in glittering armor of polished steel,
inlaid with beautiful gems.  Upon his brow each wore a brilliant
electric light, and they bore sharp spears and swords and battle-axes
of solid bronze.  It was evident they were perfectly trained, for they
stood in straight rows, rank after rank, with their weapons held erect
and true, as if awaiting but the word of command to level them upon
their foes.

"This," said the Nome King, "is but a small part of my army.  No ruler
upon Earth has ever dared to fight me, and no ruler ever will, for I am
too powerful to oppose."

He whistled again, and at once the martial array filed through the
silver and gold doorways and disappeared, after which the workmen again
resumed their labors at the furnaces.

Then, sad and discouraged, Ozma of Oz turned to her friends, and the
Nome King calmly reseated himself on his rock throne.

"It would be foolish for us to fight," the girl said to the Tin
Woodman.  "For our brave Twenty-Seven would be quickly destroyed.  I'm
sure I do not know how to act in this emergency."

"Ask the King where his kitchen is," suggested the Tiger.  "I'm hungry
as a bear."

"I might pounce upon the King and tear him in pieces," remarked the
Cowardly Lion.

"Try it," said the monarch, lighting his pipe with another hot coal
which he took from his pocket.

The Lion crouched low and tried to spring upon the Nome King; but he
hopped only a little way into the air and came down again in the same
place, not being able to approach the throne by even an inch.

"It seems to me," said the Scarecrow, thoughtfully, "that our best plan
is to wheedle his Majesty into giving up his slaves, since he is too
great a magician to oppose."

"This is the most sensible thing any of you have suggested," declared
the Nome King.  "It is folly to threaten me, but I'm so kind-hearted
that I cannot stand coaxing or wheedling.  If you really wish to
accomplish anything by your journey, my dear Ozma, you must coax me."

"Very well," said Ozma, more cheerfully.  "Let us be friends, and talk
this over in a friendly manner."

"To be sure," agreed the King, his eyes twinkling merrily.

"I am very anxious," she continued, "to liberate the Queen of Ev and
her children who are now ornaments and bric-a-brac in your Majesty's
palace, and to restore them to their people.  Tell me, sir, how this
may be accomplished."

The king remained thoughtful for a moment, after which he asked:

"Are you willing to take a few chances and risks yourself, in order to
set free the people of Ev?"

"Yes, indeed!" answered Ozma, eagerly.

"Then," said the Nome King, "I will make you this offer: You shall go
alone and unattended into my palace and examine carefully all that the
rooms contain.  Then you shall have permission to touch eleven
different objects, pronouncing at the time the word 'Ev,' and if any
one of them, or more than one, proves to be the transformation of the
Queen of Ev or any of her ten children, then they will instantly be
restored to their true forms and may leave my palace and my kingdom in
your company, without any objection whatever.  It is possible for you,
in this way, to free the entire eleven; but if you do not guess all the
objects correctly, and some of the slaves remain transformed, then each
one of your friends and followers may, in turn, enter the palace and
have the same privileges I grant you."

"Oh, thank you! thank you for this kind offer!" said Ozma, eagerly.

"I make but one condition," added the Nome King, his eyes twinkling.

"What is it?" she enquired.

"If none of the eleven objects you touch proves to be the
transformation of any of the royal family of Ev, then, instead of
freeing them, you will yourself become enchanted, and transformed into
an article of bric-a-brac or an ornament.  This is only fair and just,
and is the risk you declared you were willing to take."




12.  The Eleven Guesses


Hearing this condition imposed by the Nome King, Ozma became silent and
thoughtful, and all her friends looked at her uneasily.

"Don't you do it!" exclaimed Dorothy.  "If you guess wrong, you will be
enslaved yourself."

"But I shall have eleven guesses," answered Ozma.  "Surely I ought to
guess one object in eleven correctly; and, if I do, I shall rescue one
of the royal family and be safe myself.  Then the rest of you may
attempt it, and soon we shall free all those who are enslaved."

"What if we fail?" enquired the Scarecrow.  "I'd look nice as a piece
of bric-a-brac, wouldn't I?"

"We must not fail!" cried Ozma, courageously.  "Having come all this
distance to free these poor people, it would be weak and cowardly in us
to abandon the adventure.  Therefore I will accept the Nome King's
offer, and go at once into the royal palace."

"Come along, then, my dear," said the King, climbing down from his
throne with some difficulty, because he was so fat; "I'll show you the
way."

He approached a wall of the cave and waved his hand.  Instantly an
opening appeared, through which Ozma, after a smiling farewell to her
friends, boldly passed.

She found herself in a splendid hall that was more beautiful and grand
than anything she had ever beheld.  The ceilings were composed of great
arches that rose far above her head, and all the walls and floors were
of polished marble exquisitely tinted in many colors.  Thick velvet
carpets were on the floor and heavy silken draperies covered the arches
leading to the various rooms of the palace.  The furniture was made of
rare old woods richly carved and covered with delicate satins, and the
entire palace was lighted by a mysterious rosy glow that seemed to come
from no particular place but flooded each apartment with its soft and
pleasing radiance.

Ozma passed from one room to another, greatly delighted by all she saw.
The lovely palace had no other occupant, for the Nome King had left her
at the entrance, which closed behind her, and in all the magnificent
rooms there appeared to be no other person.

Upon the mantels, and on many shelves and brackets and tables, were
clustered ornaments of every description, seemingly made out of all
sorts of metals, glass, china, stones and marbles.  There were vases,
and figures of men and animals, and graven platters and bowls, and
mosaics of precious gems, and many other things.  Pictures, too, were
on the walls, and the underground palace was quite a museum of rare and
curious and costly objects.

After her first hasty examination of the rooms Ozma began to wonder
which of all the numerous ornaments they contained were the
transformations of the royal family of Ev.  There was nothing to guide
her, for everything seemed without a spark of life.  So she must guess
blindly; and for the first time the girl came to realize how dangerous
was her task, and how likely she was to lose her own freedom in
striving to free others from the bondage of the Nome King.  No wonder
the cunning monarch laughed good naturedly with his visitors, when he
knew how easily they might be entrapped.

But Ozma, having undertaken the venture, would not abandon it.  She
looked at a silver candelabra that had ten branches, and thought: "This
may be the Queen of Ev and her ten children." So she touched it and
uttered aloud the word "Ev," as the Nome King had instructed her to do
when she guessed.  But the candelabra remained as it was before.

Then she wandered into another room and touched a china lamb, thinking
it might be one of the children she sought.  But again she was
unsuccessful.  Three guesses; four guesses; five, six, seven, eight,
nine and ten she made, and still not one of them was right!

The girl shivered a little and grew pale even under the rosy light; for
now but one guess remained, and her own fate depended upon the result.

She resolved not to be hasty, and strolled through all the rooms once
more, gazing earnestly upon the various ornaments and trying to decide
which she would touch.  Finally, in despair, she decided to leave it
entirely to chance.  She faced the doorway of a room, shut her eyes
tightly, and then, thrusting aside the heavy draperies, she advanced
blindly with her right arm outstretched before her.

Slowly, softly she crept forward until her hand came in contact with an
object upon a small round table.  She did not know what it was, but in
a low voice she pronounced the word "Ev."

The rooms were quite empty of life after that.  The Nome King had
gained a new ornament.  For upon the edge of the table rested a pretty
grasshopper, that seemed to have been formed from a single emerald.  It
was all that remained of Ozma of Oz.

In the throne room just beyond the palace the Nome King suddenly looked
up and smiled.

"Next!" he said, in his pleasant voice.

Dorothy, the Scarecrow, and the Tin Woodman, who had been sitting in
anxious silence, each gave a start of dismay and stared into one
another's eyes.

"Has she failed?" asked Tiktok.

"So it seems," answered the little monarch, cheerfully.  "But that is
no reason one of you should not succeed.  The next may have twelve
guesses, instead of eleven, for there are now twelve persons
transformed into ornaments.  Well, well!  Which of you goes next?"

"I'll go," said Dorothy.

"Not so," replied the Tin Woodman.  "As commander of Ozma's army, it is
my privilege to follow her and attempt her rescue."

"Away you go, then," said the Scarecrow.  "But be careful, old friend."

"I will," promised the Tin Woodman; and then he followed the Nome King
to the entrance to the palace and the rock closed behind him.




13.  The Nome King Laughs


In a moment the King returned to his throne and relighted his pipe, and
the rest of the little band of adventurers settled themselves for
another long wait.  They were greatly disheartened by the failure of
their girl Ruler, and the knowledge that she was now an ornament in the
Nome King's palace--a dreadful, creepy place in spite of all its
magnificence.  Without their little leader they did not know what to do
next, and each one, down to the trembling private of the army, began to
fear he would soon be more ornamental than useful.

Suddenly the Nome King began laughing.

"Ha, ha, ha!  He, he, he!  Ho, ho, ho!"

"What's happened?" asked the Scarecrow.

"Why, your friend, the Tin Woodman, has become the funniest thing you
can imagine," replied the King, wiping the tears of merriment from his
eyes.  "No one would ever believe he could make such an amusing
ornament.  Next!"

They gazed at each other with sinking hearts.  One of the generals
began to weep dolefully.

"What are you crying for?" asked the Scarecrow, indignant at such a
display of weakness.

"He owed me six weeks back pay," said the general, "and I hate to lose
him."

"Then you shall go and find him," declared the Scarecrow.

"Me!" cried the general, greatly alarmed.

"Certainly.  It is your duty to follow your commander.  March!"

"I won't," said the general.  "I'd like to, of course; but I just
simply WON'T."

The Scarecrow looked enquiringly at the Nome King.

"Never mind," said the jolly monarch.  "If he doesn't care to enter the
palace and make his guesses I'll throw him into one of my fiery
furnaces."

"I'll go!--of course I'm going," yelled the general, as quick as scat.
"Where is the entrance--where is it?  Let me go at once!"

So the Nome King escorted him into the palace, and again returned to
await the result.  What the general did, no one can tell; but it was
not long before the King called for the next victim, and a colonel was
forced to try his fortune.

Thus, one after another, all of the twenty-six officers filed into the
palace and made their guesses--and became ornaments.

Meantime the King ordered refreshments to be served to those waiting,
and at his command a rudely shaped Nome entered, bearing a tray.  This
Nome was not unlike the others that Dorothy had seen, but he wore a
heavy gold chain around his neck to show that he was the Chief Steward
of the Nome King, and he assumed an air of much importance, and even
told his majesty not to eat too much cake late at night, or he would be
ill.

Dorothy, however, was hungry, and she was not afraid of being ill; so
she ate several cakes and found them good, and also she drank a cup of
excellent coffee made of a richly flavored clay, browned in the
furnaces and then ground fine, and found it most refreshing and not at
all muddy.

Of all the party which had started upon this adventure, the little
Kansas girl was now left alone with the Scarecrow, Tiktok, and the
private for counsellors and companions.  Of course the Cowardly Lion
and the Hungry Tiger were still there, but they, having also eaten some
of the cakes, had gone to sleep at one side of the cave, while upon the
other side stood the Sawhorse, motionless and silent, as became a mere
thing of wood.  Billina had quietly walked around and picked up the
crumbs of cake which had been scattered, and now, as it was long after
bed-time, she tried to find some dark place in which to go to sleep.

Presently the hen espied a hollow underneath the King's rocky throne,
and crept into it unnoticed.  She could still hear the chattering of
those around her, but it was almost dark underneath the throne, so that
soon she had fallen fast asleep.

"Next!" called the King, and the private, whose turn it was to enter
the fatal palace, shook hands with Dorothy and the Scarecrow and bade
them a sorrowful good-bye, and passed through the rocky portal.

They waited a long time, for the private was in no hurry to become an
ornament and made his guesses very slowly.  The Nome King, who seemed
to know, by some magical power, all that took place in his beautiful
rooms of his palace, grew impatient finally and declared he would sit
up no longer.

"I love ornaments," said he, "but I can wait until tomorrow to get more
of them; so, as soon as that stupid private is transformed, we will all
go to bed and leave the job to be finished in the morning."

"Is it so very late?" asked Dorothy.

"Why, it is after midnight," said the King, "and that strikes me as
being late enough.  There is neither night nor day in my kingdom,
because it is under the earth's surface, where the sun does not shine.
But we have to sleep, just the same as the up-stairs people do, and for
my part I'm going to bed in a few minutes."

Indeed, it was not long after this that the private made his last
guess.  Of course he guessed wrongly, and of course he at once became
an ornament.  So the King was greatly pleased, and clapped his hands to
summon his Chief Steward.

"Show these guests to some of the sleeping apartments," he commanded,
"and be quick about it, too, for I'm dreadfully sleepy myself."

"You've no business to sit up so late," replied the Steward, gruffly.
"You'll be as cross as a griffin tomorrow morning."

His Majesty made no answer to this remark, and the Chief Steward led
Dorothy through another doorway into a long hall, from which several
plain but comfortable sleeping rooms opened.  The little girl was given
the first room, and the Scarecrow and Tiktok the next--although they
never slept--and the Lion and the Tiger the third.  The Sawhorse
hobbled after the Steward into a fourth room, to stand stiffly in the
center of it until morning.  Each night was rather a bore to the
Scarecrow, Tiktok and the Sawhorse; but they had learned from
experience to pass the time patiently and quietly, since all their
friends who were made of flesh had to sleep and did not like to be
disturbed.

When the Chief Steward had left them alone the Scarecrow remarked,
sadly:

"I am in great sorrow over the loss of my old comrade, the Tin Woodman.
We have had many dangerous adventures together, and escaped them all,
and now it grieves me to know he has become an ornament, and is lost to
me forever."

"He was al-ways an or-na-ment to so-ci-e-ty," said Tiktok.

"True; but now the Nome King laughs at him, and calls him the funniest
ornament in all the palace.  It will hurt my poor friend's pride to be
laughed at," continued the Scarecrow, sadly.

"We will make rath-er ab-surd or-na-ments, our-selves, to-mor-row,"
observed the machine, in his monotonous voice.

Just then Dorothy ran into their room, in a state of great anxiety,
crying:

"Where's Billina?  Have you seen Billina?  Is she here?"

"No," answered the Scarecrow.

"Then what has become of her?" asked the girl.

"Why, I thought she was with you," said the Scarecrow.  "Yet I do not
remember seeing the yellow hen since she picked up the crumbs of cake."

"We must have left her in the room where the King's throne is," decided
Dorothy, and at once she turned and ran down the hall to the door
through which they had entered.  But it was fast closed and locked on
the other side, and the heavy slab of rock proved to be so thick that
no sound could pass through it.  So Dorothy was forced to return to her
chamber.

The Cowardly Lion stuck his head into her room to try to console the
girl for the loss of her feathered friend.

"The yellow hen is well able to take care of herself," said he; "so
don't worry about her, but try to get all the sleep you can.  It has
been a long and weary day, and you need rest."

"I'll prob'ly get lots of rest tomorrow, when I become an orn'ment,"
said Dorothy, sleepily.  But she lay down upon her couch, nevertheless,
and in spite of all her worries was soon in the land of dreams.




14.  Dorothy Tries to be Brave


Meantime the Chief Steward had returned to the throne room, where he
said to the King:

"You are a fool to waste so much time upon these people."

"What!" cried his Majesty, in so enraged a voice that it awoke Billina,
who was asleep under his throne.  "How dare you call me a fool?"

"Because I like to speak the truth," said the Steward.  "Why didn't you
enchant them all at once, instead of allowing them to go one by one
into the palace and guess which ornaments are the Queen of Ev and her
children?"

"Why, you stupid rascal, it is more fun this way," returned the King,
"and it serves to keep me amused for a long time."

"But suppose some of them happen to guess aright," persisted the
Steward; "then you would lose your old ornaments and these new ones,
too."

"There is no chance of their guessing aright," replied the monarch,
with a laugh.  "How could they know that the Queen of Ev and her family
are all ornaments of a royal purple color?"

"But there are no other purple ornaments in the palace," said the
Steward.

"There are many other colors, however, and the purple ones are
scattered throughout the rooms, and are of many different shapes and
sizes.  Take my word for it, Steward, they will never think of choosing
the purple ornaments."

Billina, squatting under the throne, had listened carefully to all this
talk, and now chuckled softly to herself as she heard the King disclose
his secret.

"Still, you are acting foolishly by running the chance," continued the
Steward, roughly; "and it is still more foolish of you to transform all
those people from Oz into green ornaments."

"I did that because they came from the Emerald City," replied the King;
"and I had no green ornaments in my collection until now.  I think they
will look quite pretty, mixed with the others.  Don't you?"

The Steward gave an angry grunt.

"Have your own way, since you are the King," he growled.  "But if you
come to grief through your carelessness, remember that I told you so.
If I wore the magic belt which enables you to work all your
transformations, and gives you so much other power, I am sure I would
make a much wiser and better King than you are."

"Oh, cease your tiresome chatter!" commanded the King, getting angry
again.  "Because you are my Chief Steward you have an idea you can
scold me as much as you please.  But the very next time you become
impudent, I will send you to work in the furnaces, and get another Nome
to fill your place.  Now follow me to my chamber, for I am going to
bed.  And see that I am wakened early tomorrow morning.  I want to
enjoy the fun of transforming the rest of these people into ornaments."

"What color will you make the Kansas girl?" asked the Steward.

"Gray, I think," said his Majesty.

"And the Scarecrow and the machine man?"

"Oh, they shall be of solid gold, because they are so ugly in real
life."

Then the voices died away, and Billina knew that the King and his
Steward had left the room.  She fixed up some of her tail feathers that
were not straight, and then tucked her head under her wing again and
went to sleep.

In the morning Dorothy and the Lion and Tiger were given their
breakfast in their rooms, and afterward joined the King in his throne
room.  The Tiger complained bitterly that he was half starved, and
begged to go into the palace and become an ornament, so that he would
no longer suffer the pangs of hunger.

"Haven't you had your breakfast?" asked the Nome King.

"Oh, I had just a bite," replied the beast.  "But what good is a bite,
to a hungry tiger?"

"He ate seventeen bowls of porridge, a platter full of fried sausages,
eleven loaves of bread and twenty-one mince pies," said the Steward.

"What more do you want?" demanded the King.

"A fat baby.  I want a fat baby," said the Hungry Tiger.  "A nice,
plump, juicy, tender, fat baby.  But, of course, if I had one, my
conscience would not allow me to eat it.  So I'll have to be an
ornament and forget my hunger."

"Impossible!" exclaimed the King.  "I'll have no clumsy beasts enter my
palace, to overturn and break all my pretty nick-nacks.  When the rest
of your friends are transformed you can return to the upper world, and
go about your business."

"As for that, we have no business, when our friends are gone," said the
Lion.  "So we do not care much what becomes of us."

Dorothy begged to be allowed to go first into the palace, but Tiktok
firmly maintained that the slave should face danger before the
mistress.  The Scarecrow agreed with him in that, so the Nome King
opened the door for the machine man, who tramped into the palace to
meet his fate.  Then his Majesty returned to his throne and puffed his
pipe so contentedly that a small cloud of smoke formed above his head.

Bye and bye he said:

"I'm sorry there are so few of you left.  Very soon, now, my fun will
be over, and then for amusement I shall have nothing to do but admire
my new ornaments."

"It seems to me," said Dorothy, "that you are not so honest as you
pretend to be."

"How's that?" asked the King.

"Why, you made us think it would be easy to guess what ornaments the
people of Ev were changed into."

"It IS easy," declared the monarch, "if one is a good guesser.  But it
appears that the members of your party are all poor guessers."

"What is Tiktok doing now?" asked the girl, uneasily.

"Nothing," replied the King, with a frown.  "He is standing perfectly
still, in the middle of a room."

"Oh, I expect he's run down," said Dorothy.  "I forgot to wind him up
this morning.  How many guesses has he made?"

"All that he is allowed except one," answered the King.  "Suppose you
go in and wind him up, and then you can stay there and make your own
guesses."

"All right," said Dorothy.

"It is my turn next," declared the Scarecrow.

"Why, you don't want to go away and leave me all alone, do you?" asked
the girl.  "Besides, if I go now I can wind up Tiktok, so that he can
make his last guess."

"Very well, then," said the Scarecrow, with a sigh.  "Run along, little
Dorothy, and may good luck go with you!"

So Dorothy, trying to be brave in spite of her fears, passed through
the doorway into the gorgeous rooms of the palace.  The stillness of
the place awed her, at first, and the child drew short breaths, and
pressed her hand to her heart, and looked all around with wondering
eyes.

Yes, it was a beautiful place; but enchantments lurked in every nook
and corner, and she had not yet grown accustomed to the wizardries of
these fairy countries, so different from the quiet and sensible
common-places of her own native land.

Slowly she passed through several rooms until she came upon Tiktok,
standing motionless.  It really seemed, then, that she had found a
friend in this mysterious palace, so she hastened to wind up the
machine man's action and speech and thoughts.

"Thank you, Dor-oth-y," were his first words.  "I have now one more
guess to make."

"Oh, be very careful, Tiktok; won't you?" cried the girl.

"Yes.  But the Nome King has us in his power, and he has set a trap for
us.  I fear we are all lost." he answered.

"I fear so, too," said Dorothy, sadly.

"If Smith & Tin-ker had giv-en me a guess-ing clock-work at-tach-ment,"
continued Tiktok, "I might have de-fied the Nome King.  But my thoughts
are plain and sim-ple, and are not of much use in this case."

"Do the best you can," said Dorothy, encouragingly, "and if you fail I
will watch and see what shape you are changed into."

So Tiktok touched a yellow glass vase that had daisies painted on one
side, and he spoke at the same time the word "Ev."

In a flash the machine man had disappeared, and although the girl
looked quickly in every direction, she could not tell which of the many
ornaments the room contained had a moment before been her faithful
friend and servant.

So all she could do was to accept the hopeless task set her, and make
her guesses and abide by the result.

"It can't hurt very much," she thought, "for I haven't heard any of
them scream or cry out--not even the poor officers.  Dear me!  I wonder
if Uncle Henry or Aunt Em will ever know I have become an orn'ment in
the Nome King's palace, and must stand forever and ever in one place
and look pretty--'cept when I'm moved to be dusted.  It isn't the way I
thought I'd turn out, at all; but I s'pose it can't be helped."

She walked through all the rooms once more, and examined with care all
the objects they contained; but there were so many, they bewildered
her, and she decided, after all, as Ozma had done, that it could be
only guess work at the best, and that the chances were much against her
guessing aright.

Timidly she touched an alabaster bowl and said: "Ev."

"That's one failure, anyhow," she thought.  "But how am I to know which
thing is enchanted, and which is not?"

Next she touched the image of a purple kitten that stood on the corner
of a mantel, and as she pronounced the word "Ev" the kitten
disappeared, and a pretty, fair-haired boy stood beside her.  At the
same time a bell rang somewhere in the distance, and as Dorothy started
back, partly in surprise and partly in joy, the little one exclaimed:

"Where am I?  And who are you?  And what has happened to me?"

"Well, I declare!" said Dorothy.  "I've really done it."

"Done what?" asked the boy.

"Saved myself from being an ornament," replied the girl, with a laugh,
"and saved you from being forever a purple kitten."

"A purple kitten?" he repeated.  "There IS no such thing."

"I know," she answered.  "But there was, a minute ago.  Don't you
remember standing on a corner of the mantel?"

"Of course not.  I am a Prince of Ev, and my name is Evring," the
little one announced, proudly.  "But my father, the King, sold my
mother and all her children to the cruel ruler of the Nomes, and after
that I remember nothing at all."

"A purple kitten can't be 'spected to remember, Evring," said Dorothy.
"But now you are yourself again, and I'm going to try to save some of
your brothers and sisters, and perhaps your mother, as well.  So come
with me."

She seized the child's hand and eagerly hurried here and there, trying
to decide which object to choose next.  The third guess was another
failure, and so was the fourth and the fifth.

Little Evring could not imagine what she was doing, but he trotted
along beside her very willingly, for he liked the new companion he had
found.

Dorothy's further quest proved unsuccessful; but after her first
disappointment was over, the little girl was filled with joy and
thankfulness to think that after all she had been able to save one
member of the royal family of Ev, and could restore the little Prince
to his sorrowing country.  Now she might return to the terrible Nome
King in safety, carrying with her the prize she had won in the person
of the fair-haired boy.

So she retraced her steps until she found the entrance to the palace,
and as she approached, the massive doors of rock opened of their own
accord, allowing both Dorothy and Evring to pass the portals and enter
the throne room.




15.  Billina Frightens the Nome King


Now when Dorothy had entered the palace to make her guesses and the
Scarecrow was left with the Nome King, the two sat in moody silence for
several minutes.  Then the monarch exclaimed, in a tone of satisfaction:

"Very good!"

"Who is very good?" asked the Scarecrow.

"The machine man.  He won't need to be wound up any more, for he has
now become a very neat ornament.  Very neat, indeed."

"How about Dorothy?" the Scarecrow enquired.

"Oh, she will begin to guess, pretty soon," said the King, cheerfully.
"And then she will join my collection, and it will be your turn."

The good Scarecrow was much distressed by the thought that his little
friend was about to suffer the fate of Ozma and the rest of their
party; but while he sat in gloomy reverie a shrill voice suddenly cried:

"Kut, kut, kut--ka-daw-kutt!  Kut, kut, kut--ka-daw-kutt!"

The Nome King nearly jumped off his seat, he was so startled.

"Good gracious!  What's that?" he yelled.

"Why, it's Billina," said the Scarecrow.

"What do you mean by making a noise like that?" shouted the King,
angrily, as the yellow hen came from under the throne and strutted
proudly about the room.

"I've got a right to cackle, I guess," replied Billina.  "I've just
laid my egg."

"What!  Laid an egg!  In my throne room!  How dare you do such a
thing?" asked the King, in a voice of fury.

"I lay eggs wherever I happen to be," said the hen, ruffling her
feathers and then shaking them into place.

"But--thunder-ation!  Don't you know that eggs are poison?" roared the
King, while his rock-colored eyes stuck out in great terror.

"Poison! well, I declare," said Billina, indignantly.  "I'll have you
know all my eggs are warranted strictly fresh and up to date.  Poison,
indeed!"

"You don't understand," retorted the little monarch, nervously.  "Eggs
belong only to the outside world--to the world on the earth's surface,
where you came from.  Here, in my underground kingdom, they are rank
poison, as I said, and we Nomes can't bear them around."

"Well, you'll have to bear this one around," declared Billina; "for
I've laid it."

"Where?" asked the King.

"Under your throne," said the hen.

The King jumped three feet into the air, so anxious was he to get away
from the throne.

"Take it away!  Take it away at once!" he shouted.

"I can't," said Billina.  "I haven't any hands."

"I'll take the egg," said the Scarecrow.  "I'm making a collection of
Billina's eggs.  There's one in my pocket now, that she laid yesterday."

Hearing this, the monarch hastened to put a good distance between
himself and the Scarecrow, who was about to reach under the throne for
the egg when the hen suddenly cried:

"Stop!"

"What's wrong?" asked the Scarecrow.

"Don't take the egg unless the King will allow me to enter the palace
and guess as the others have done," said Billina.

"Pshaw!" returned the King.  "You're only a hen.  How could you guess
my enchantments?"

"I can try, I suppose," said Billina.  "And, if I fail, you will have
another ornament."

"A pretty ornament you'd make, wouldn't you?" growled the King.  "But
you shall have your way.  It will properly punish you for daring to lay
an egg in my presence.  After the Scarecrow is enchanted you shall
follow him into the palace.  But how will you touch the objects?"

"With my claws," said the hen; "and I can speak the word 'Ev' as
plainly as anyone.  Also I must have the right to guess the
enchantments of my friends, and to release them if I succeed."

"Very well," said the King.  "You have my promise."

"Then," said Billina to the Scarecrow, "you may get the egg."

He knelt down and reached underneath the throne and found the egg,
which he placed in another pocket of his jacket, fearing that if both
eggs were in one pocket they would knock together and get broken.

Just then a bell above the throne rang briskly, and the King gave
another nervous jump.

"Well, well!" said he, with a rueful face; "the girl has actually done
it."

"Done what?" asked the Scarecrow.

"She has made one guess that is right, and broken one of my neatest
enchantments.  By ricketty, it's too bad!  I never thought she would do
it."

"Do I understand that she will now return to us in safety?" enquired
the Scarecrow, joyfully wrinkling his painted face into a broad smile.

"Of course," said the King, fretfully pacing up and down the room.  "I
always keep my promises, no matter how foolish they are.  But I shall
make an ornament of the yellow hen to replace the one I have just lost."

"Perhaps you will, and perhaps you won't," murmured Billina, calmly.
"I may surprise you by guessing right."

"Guessing right?" snapped the King.  "How could you guess right, where
your betters have failed, you stupid fowl?"

Billina did not care to answer this question, and a moment later the
doors flew open and Dorothy entered, leading the little Prince Evring
by the hand.

The Scarecrow welcomed the girl with a close embrace, and he would have
embraced Evring, too, in his delight.  But the little Prince was shy,
and shrank away from the painted Scarecrow because he did not yet know
his many excellent qualities.

But there was little time for the friends to talk, because the
Scarecrow must now enter the palace.  Dorothy's success had greatly
encouraged him, and they both hoped he would manage to make at least
one correct guess.

However, he proved as unfortunate as the others except Dorothy, and
although he took a good deal of time to select his objects, not one did
the poor Scarecrow guess aright.

So he became a solid gold card-receiver, and the beautiful but terrible
palace awaited its next visitor.

"It's all over," remarked the King, with a sigh of satisfaction; "and
it has been a very amusing performance, except for the one good guess
the Kansas girl made.  I am richer by a great many pretty ornaments."

"It is my turn, now," said Billina, briskly.

"Oh, I'd forgotten you," said the King.  "But you needn't go if you
don't wish to.  I will be generous, and let you off."

"No you won't," replied the hen.  "I insist upon having my guesses, as
you promised."

"Then go ahead, you absurd feathered fool!" grumbled the King, and he
caused the opening that led to the palace to appear once more.

"Don't go, Billina," said Dorothy, earnestly.  "It isn't easy to guess
those orn'ments, and only luck saved me from being one myself.  Stay
with me and we'll go back to the Land of Ev together.  I'm sure this
little Prince will give us a home."

"Indeed I will," said Evring, with much dignity.

"Don't worry, my dear," cried Billina, with a cluck that was meant for
a laugh.  "I may not be human, but I'm no fool, if I AM a chicken."

"Oh, Billina!" said Dorothy, "you haven't been a chicken in a long
time.  Not since you--you've been--grown up."

"Perhaps that's true," answered Billina, thoughtfully.  "But if a
Kansas farmer sold me to some one, what would he call me?--a hen or a
chicken!"

"You are not a Kansas farmer, Billina," replied the girl, "and you
said--"

"Never mind that, Dorothy.  I'm going.  I won't say good-bye, because
I'm coming back.  Keep up your courage, for I'll see you a little
later."

Then Billina gave several loud "cluck-clucks" that seemed to make the
fat little King MORE nervous than ever, and marched through the
entrance into the enchanted palace.

"I hope I've seen the last of THAT bird," declared the monarch, seating
himself again in his throne and mopping the perspiration from his
forehead with his rock-colored handkerchief.  "Hens are bothersome
enough at their best, but when they can talk they're simply dreadful."

"Billina's my friend," said Dorothy quietly.  "She may not always be
'zactly polite; but she MEANS well, I'm sure."




16.  Purple, Green, and Gold


The yellow hen, stepping high and with an air of vast importance,
walked slowly over the rich velvet carpets of the splendid palace,
examining everything she met with her sharp little eyes.

Billina had a right to feel important; for she alone shared the Nome
King's secret and knew how to tell the objects that were
transformations from those that had never been alive.  She was very
sure that her guesses would be correct, but before she began to make
them she was curious to behold all the magnificence of this underground
palace, which was perhaps one of the most splendid and beautiful places
in any fairyland.

As she went through the rooms she counted the purple ornaments; and
although some were small and hidden in queer places, Billina spied them
all, and found the entire ten scattered about the various rooms.  The
green ornaments she did not bother to count, for she thought she could
find them all when the time came.

Finally, having made a survey of the entire palace and enjoyed its
splendor, the yellow hen returned to one of the rooms where she had
noticed a large purple footstool.  She placed a claw upon this and said
"Ev," and at once the footstool vanished and a lovely lady, tall and
slender and most beautifully robed, stood before her.

The lady's eyes were round with astonishment for a moment, for she
could not remember her transformation, nor imagine what had restored
her to life.

"Good morning, ma'am," said Billina, in her sharp voice.  "You're
looking quite well, considering your age."

"Who speaks?" demanded the Queen of Ev, drawing herself up proudly.

"Why, my name's Bill, by rights," answered the hen, who was now perched
upon the back of a chair; "although Dorothy has put scollops on it and
made it Billina.  But the name doesn't matter.  I've saved you from the
Nome King, and you are a slave no longer."

"Then I thank you for the gracious favor," said the Queen, with a
graceful courtesy.  "But, my children--tell me, I beg of you--where are
my children?" and she clasped her hands in anxious entreaty.

"Don't worry," advised Billina, pecking at a tiny bug that was crawling
over the chair back.  "Just at present they are out of mischief and
perfectly safe, for they can't even wiggle."

"What mean you, O kindly stranger?" asked the Queen, striving to
repress her anxiety.

"They're enchanted," said Billina, "just as you have been--all, that
is, except the little fellow Dorothy picked out.  And the chances are
that they have been good boys and girls for some time, because they
couldn't help it."

"Oh, my poor darlings!" cried the Queen, with a sob of anguish.

"Not at all," returned the hen.  "Don't let their condition make you
unhappy, ma'am, because I'll soon have them crowding 'round to bother
and worry you as naturally as ever.  Come with me, if you please, and
I'll show you how pretty they look."

She flew down from her perch and walked into the next room, the Queen
following.  As she passed a low table a small green grasshopper caught
her eye, and instantly Billina pounced upon it and snapped it up in her
sharp bill.  For grasshoppers are a favorite food with hens, and they
usually must be caught quickly, before they can hop away.  It might
easily have been the end of Ozma of Oz, had she been a real grasshopper
instead of an emerald one.  But Billina found the grasshopper hard and
lifeless, and suspecting it was not good to eat she quickly dropped it
instead of letting it slide down her throat.

"I might have known better," she muttered to herself, "for where there
is no grass there can be no live grasshoppers.  This is probably one of
the King's transformations."

A moment later she approached one of the purple ornaments, and while
the Queen watched her curiously the hen broke the Nome King's
enchantment and a sweet-faced girl, whose golden hair fell in a cloud
over her shoulders, stood beside them.

"Evanna!" cried the Queen, "my own Evanna!" and she clasped the girl to
her bosom and covered her face with kisses.

"That's all right," said Billina, contentedly.  "Am I a good guesser,
Mr. Nome King?  Well, I guess!"

Then she disenchanted another girl, whom the Queen addressed as Evrose,
and afterwards a boy named Evardo, who was older than his brother
Evring.  Indeed, the yellow hen kept the good Queen exclaiming and
embracing for some time, until five Princesses and four Princes, all
looking very much alike except for the difference in size, stood in a
row beside their happy mother.

The Princesses were named, Evanna, Evrose, Evella, Evirene and Evedna,
while the Princes were Evrob, Evington, Evardo and Evroland.  Of these
Evardo was the eldest and would inherit his father's throne and be
crowned King of Ev when he returned to his own country.  He was a grave
and quiet youth, and would doubtless rule his people wisely and with
justice.

Billina, having restored all of the royal family of Ev to their proper
forms, now began to select the green ornaments which were the
transformations of the people of Oz.  She had little trouble in finding
these, and before long all the twenty-six officers, as well as the
private, were gathered around the yellow hen, joyfully congratulating
her upon their release.  The thirty-seven people who were now alive in
the rooms of the palace knew very well that they owed their freedom to
the cleverness of the yellow hen, and they were earnest in thanking her
for saving them from the magic of the Nome King.

"Now," said Billina, "I must find Ozma.  She is sure to be here,
somewhere, and of course she is green, being from Oz.  So look around,
you stupid soldiers, and help me in my search."

For a while, however, they could discover nothing more that was green.
But the Queen, who had kissed all her nine children once more and could
now find time to take an interest in what was going on, said to the hen:

"Mayhap, my gentle friend, it is the grasshopper whom you seek."

"Of course it's the grasshopper!" exclaimed Billina.  "I declare, I'm
nearly as stupid as these brave soldiers.  Wait here for me, and I'll
go back and get it."

So she went into the room where she had seen the grasshopper, and
presently Ozma of Oz, as lovely and dainty as ever, entered and
approached the Queen of Ev, greeting her as one high born princess
greets another.

"But where are my friends, the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman?" asked
the girl Ruler, when these courtesies had been exchanged.

"I'll hunt them up," replied Billina.  "The Scarecrow is solid gold,
and so is Tiktok; but I don't exactly know what the Tin Woodman is,
because the Nome King said he had been transformed into something
funny."

Ozma eagerly assisted the hen in her quest, and soon the Scarecrow and
the machine man, being ornaments of shining gold, were discovered and
restored to their accustomed forms.  But, search as they might, in no
place could they find a funny ornament that might be the transformation
of the Tin Woodman.

"Only one thing can be done," said Ozma, at last, "and that is to
return to the Nome King and oblige him to tell us what has become of
our friend."

"Perhaps he won't," suggested Billina.

"He must," returned Ozma, firmly.  "The King has not treated us
honestly, for under the mask of fairness and good nature he entrapped
us all, and we would have been forever enchanted had not our wise and
clever friend, the yellow hen, found a way to save us."

"The King is a villain," declared the Scarecrow.

"His laugh is worse than another man's frown," said the private, with a
shudder.

"I thought he was hon-est, but I was mis-tak-en," remarked Tiktok.  "My
thoughts are us-u-al-ly cor-rect, but it is Smith & Tin-ker's fault if
they some-times go wrong or do not work prop-er-ly."

"Smith & Tinker made a very good job of you," said Ozma, kindly.  "I do
not think they should be blamed if you are not quite perfect."

"Thank you," replied Tiktok.

"Then," said Billina, in her brisk little voice, "let us all go back to
the Nome King, and see what he has to say for himself."

So they started for the entrance, Ozma going first, with the Queen and
her train of little Princes and Princesses following.  Then came
Tiktok, and the Scarecrow with Billina perched upon his straw-stuffed
shoulder.  The twenty-seven officers and the private brought up the
rear.

As they reached the hall the doors flew open before them; but then they
all stopped and stared into the domed cavern with faces of astonishment
and dismay.  For the room was filled with the mail-clad warriors of the
Nome King, rank after rank standing in orderly array.  The electric
lights upon their brows gleamed brightly, their battle-axes were poised
as if to strike down their foes; yet they remained motionless as
statues, awaiting the word of command.

And in the center of this terrible army sat the little King upon his
throne of rock.  But he neither smiled nor laughed.  Instead, his face
was distorted with rage, and most dreadful to behold.




17.  The Scarecrow Wins the Fight


After Billina had entered the palace Dorothy and Evring sat down to
await the success or failure of her mission, and the Nome King occupied
his throne and smoked his long pipe for a while in a cheerful and
contented mood.

Then the bell above the throne, which sounded whenever an enchantment
was broken, began to ring, and the King gave a start of annoyance and
exclaimed, "Rocketty-ricketts!"

When the bell rang a second time the King shouted angrily, "Smudge and
blazes!" and at a third ring he screamed in a fury, "Hippikaloric!"
which must be a dreadful word because we don't know what it means.

After that the bell went on ringing time after time; but the King was
now so violently enraged that he could not utter a word, but hopped out
of his throne and all around the room in a mad frenzy, so that he
reminded Dorothy of a jumping-jack.

The girl was, for her part, filled with joy at every peal of the bell,
for it announced the fact that Billina had transformed one more
ornament into a living person.  Dorothy was also amazed at Billina's
success, for she could not imagine how the yellow hen was able to guess
correctly from all the bewildering number of articles clustered in the
rooms of the palace.  But after she had counted ten, and the bell
continued to ring, she knew that not only the royal family of Ev, but
Ozma and her followers also, were being restored to their natural
forms, and she was so delighted that the antics of the angry King only
made her laugh merrily.

Perhaps the little monarch could not be more furious than he was
before, but the girl's laughter nearly drove him frantic, and he roared
at her like a savage beast.  Then, as he found that all his
enchantments were likely to be dispelled and his victims every one set
free, he suddenly ran to the little door that opened upon the balcony
and gave the shrill whistle that summoned his warriors.

At once the army filed out of the gold and silver doors in great
numbers, and marched up a winding stairs and into the throne room, led
by a stern featured Nome who was their captain.  When they had nearly
filled the throne room they formed ranks in the big underground cavern
below, and then stood still until they were told what to do next.

Dorothy had pressed back to one side of the cavern when the warriors
entered, and now she stood holding little Prince Evring's hand while
the great Lion crouched upon one side and the enormous Tiger crouched
on the other side.

"Seize that girl!" shouted the King to his captain, and a group of
warriors sprang forward to obey.  But both the Lion and Tiger snarled
so fiercely and bared their strong, sharp teeth so threateningly, that
the men drew back in alarm.

"Don't mind them!" cried the Nome King; "they cannot leap beyond the
places where they now stand."

"But they can bite those who attempt to touch the girl," said the
captain.

"I'll fix that," answered the King.  "I'll enchant them again, so that
they can't open their jaws."

He stepped out of the throne to do this, but just then the Sawhorse ran
up behind him and gave the fat monarch a powerful kick with both his
wooden hind legs.

"Ow!  Murder!  Treason!" yelled the King, who had been hurled against
several of his warriors and was considerably bruised.  "Who did that?"

"I did," growled the Sawhorse, viciously.  "You let Dorothy alone, or
I'll kick you again."

"We'll see about that," replied the King, and at once he waved his hand
toward the Sawhorse and muttered a magical word.  "Aha!" he continued;
"NOW let us see you move, you wooden mule!"

But in spite of the magic the Sawhorse moved; and he moved so quickly
toward the King, that the fat little man could not get out of his way.
Thump--BANG! came the wooden heels, right against his round body, and
the King flew into the air and fell upon the head of his captain, who
let him drop flat upon the ground.

"Well, well!" said the King, sitting up and looking surprised.  "Why
didn't my magic belt work, I wonder?"

"The creature is made of wood," replied the captain.  "Your magic will
not work on wood, you know."

"Ah, I'd forgotten that," said the King, getting up and limping to his
throne.  "Very well, let the girl alone.  She can't escape us, anyway."

The warriors, who had been rather confused by these incidents, now
formed their ranks again, and the Sawhorse pranced across the room to
Dorothy and took a position beside the Hungry Tiger.

At that moment the doors that led to the palace flew open and the
people of Ev and the people of Oz were disclosed to view.  They paused,
astonished, at sight of the warriors and the angry Nome King, seated in
their midst.

"Surrender!" cried the King, in a loud voice.  "You are my prisoners."

"Go 'long!" answered Billina, from the Scarecrow's shoulder.  "You
promised me that if I guessed correctly my friends and I might depart
in safety.  And you always keep your promises."

"I said you might leave the palace in safety," retorted the King; "and
so you may, but you cannot leave my dominions.  You are my prisoners,
and I will hurl you all into my underground dungeons, where the
volcanic fires glow and the molten lava flows in every direction, and
the air is hotter than blue blazes."

"That will be the end of me, all right," said the Scarecrow,
sorrowfully.  "One small blaze, blue or green, is enough to reduce me
to an ash-heap."

"Do you surrender?" demanded the King.

Billina whispered something in the Scarecrow's ear that made him smile
and put his hands in his jacket pockets.

"No!" returned Ozma, boldly answering the King.  Then she said to her
army:

"Forward, my brave soldiers, and fight for your Ruler and yourselves,
unto death!"

"Pardon me, Most Royal Ozma," replied one of her generals; "but I find
that I and my brother officers all suffer from heart disease, and the
slightest excitement might kill us.  If we fight we may get excited.
Would it not be well for us to avoid this grave danger?"

"Soldiers should not have heart disease," said Ozma.

"Private soldiers are not, I believe, afflicted that way," declared
another general, twirling his moustache thoughtfully.  "If your Royal
Highness desires, we will order our private to attack yonder warriors."

"Do so," replied Ozma.

"For-ward--march!" cried all the generals, with one voice.
"For-ward--march!" yelled the colonels.  "For-ward--march!" shouted the
majors.  "For-ward--march!" commanded the captains.

And at that the private leveled his spear and dashed furiously upon the
foe.

The captain of the Nomes was so surprised by this sudden onslaught that
he forgot to command his warriors to fight, so that the ten men in the
first row, who stood in front of the private's spear, fell over like so
many toy soldiers.  The spear could not go through their steel armor,
however, so the warriors scrambled to their feet again, and by that
time the private had knocked over another row of them.

Then the captain brought down his battle-axe with such a strong blow
that the private's spear was shattered and knocked from his grasp, and
he was helpless to fight any longer.

The Nome King had left his throne and pressed through his warriors to
the front ranks, so he could see what was going on; but as he faced
Ozma and her friends the Scarecrow, as if aroused to action by the
valor of the private, drew one of Billina's eggs from his right jacket
pocket and hurled it straight at the little monarch's head.

It struck him squarely in his left eye, where the egg smashed and
scattered, as eggs will, and covered his face and hair and beard with
its sticky contents.

"Help, help!" screamed the King, clawing with his fingers at the egg,
in a struggle to remove it.

"An egg! an egg!  Run for your lives!" shouted the captain of the
Nomes, in a voice of horror.

And how they DID run!  The warriors fairly tumbled over one another in
their efforts to escape the fatal poison of that awful egg, and those
who could not rush down the winding stair fell off the balcony into the
great cavern beneath, knocking over those who stood below them.

Even while the King was still yelling for help his throne room became
emptied of every one of his warriors, and before the monarch had
managed to clear the egg away from his left eye the Scarecrow threw the
second egg against his right eye, where it smashed and blinded him
entirely.  The King was unable to flee because he could not see which
way to run; so he stood still and howled and shouted and screamed in
abject fear.

While this was going on, Billina flew over to Dorothy, and perching
herself upon the Lion's back the hen whispered eagerly to the girl:

"Get his belt!  Get the Nome King's jeweled belt!  It unbuckles in the
back.  Quick, Dorothy--quick!"




18.  The Fate of the Tin Woodman


Dorothy obeyed.  She ran at once behind the Nome King, who was still
trying to free his eyes from the egg, and in a twinkling she had
unbuckled his splendid jeweled belt and carried it away with her to her
place beside the Tiger and Lion, where, because she did not know what
else to do with it, she fastened it around her own slim waist.

Just then the Chief Steward rushed in with a sponge and a bowl of
water, and began mopping away the broken eggs from his master's face.
In a few minutes, and while all the party stood looking on, the King
regained the use of his eyes, and the first thing he did was to glare
wickedly upon the Scarecrow and exclaim:

"I'll make you suffer for this, you hay-stuffed dummy!  Don't you know
eggs are poison to Nomes?"

"Really," said the Scarecrow, "they DON'T seem to agree with you,
although I wonder why."

"They were strictly fresh and above suspicion," said Billina.  "You
ought to be glad to get them."

"I'll transform you all into scorpions!" cried the King, angrily, and
began waving his arms and muttering magic words.

But none of the people became scorpions, so the King stopped and looked
at them in surprise.

"What's wrong?" he asked.

"Why, you are not wearing your magic belt," replied the Chief Steward,
after looking the King over carefully.  "Where is it?  What have you
done with it?"

The Nome King clapped his hand to his waist, and his rock colored face
turned white as chalk.

"It's gone," he cried, helplessly.  "It's gone, and I am ruined!"

Dorothy now stepped forward and said:

"Royal Ozma, and you, Queen of Ev, I welcome you and your people back
to the land of the living.  Billina has saved you from your troubles,
and now we will leave this drea'ful place, and return to Ev as soon as
poss'ble."

While the child spoke they could all see that she wore the magic belt,
and a great cheer went up from all her friends, which was led by the
voices of the Scarecrow and the private.  But the Nome King did not
join them.  He crept back onto his throne like a whipped dog, and lay
there bitterly bemoaning his defeat.

"But we have not yet found my faithful follower, the Tin Woodman," said
Ozma to Dorothy, "and without him I do not wish to go away."

"Nor I," replied Dorothy, quickly.  "Wasn't he in the palace?"

"He must be there," said Billina; "but I had no clue to guide me in
guessing the Tin Woodman, so I must have missed him."

"We will go back into the rooms," said Dorothy.  "This magic belt, I am
sure, will help us to find our dear old friend."

So she re-entered the palace, the doors of which still stood open, and
everyone followed her except the Nome King, the Queen of Ev and Prince
Evring.  The mother had taken the little Prince in her lap and was
fondling and kissing him lovingly, for he was her youngest born.

But the others went with Dorothy, and when she came to the middle of
the first room the girl waved her hand, as she had seen the King do,
and commanded the Tin Woodman, whatever form he might then have, to
resume his proper shape.  No result followed this attempt, so Dorothy
went into another room and repeated it, and so through all the rooms of
the palace.  Yet the Tin Woodman did not appear to them, nor could they
imagine which among the thousands of ornaments was their transformed
friend.

Sadly they returned to the throne room, where the King, seeing that
they had met with failure, jeered at Dorothy, saying:

"You do not know how to use my belt, so it is of no use to you.  Give
it back to me and I will let you go free--you and all the people who
came with you.  As for the royal family of Ev, they are my slaves, and
shall remain here."

"I shall keep the belt," said Dorothy.

"But how can you escape, without my consent?"  asked the King.

"Easily enough," answered the girl.  "All we need to do is to walk out
the way that we came in."

"Oh, that's all, is it?" sneered the King.  "Well, where is the passage
through which you entered this room?"

They all looked around, but could not discover the place, for it had
long since been closed.  Dorothy, however, would not be dismayed.  She
waved her hand toward the seemingly solid wall of the cavern and said:

"I command the passage to open!"

Instantly the order was obeyed; the opening appeared and the passage
lay plainly before them.

The King was amazed, and all the others overjoyed.

"Why, then, if the belt obeys you, were we unable to discover the Tin
Woodman?" asked Ozma.

"I can't imagine," said Dorothy.

"See here, girl," proposed the King, eagerly; "give me the belt, and I
will tell you what shape the Tin Woodman was changed into, and then you
can easily find him."

Dorothy hesitated, but Billina cried out:

"Don't you do it!  If the Nome King gets the belt again he will make
every one of us prisoners, for we will be in his power.  Only by
keeping the belt, Dorothy, will you ever be able to leave this place in
safety."

"I think that is true," said the Scarecrow.  "But I have another idea,
due to my excellent brains.  Let Dorothy transform the King into a
goose-egg unless he agrees to go into the palace and bring out to us
the ornament which is our friend Nick Chopper, the Tin Woodman."

"A goose-egg!" echoed the horrified King.  "How dreadful!"

"Well, a goose-egg you will be unless you go and fetch us the ornament
we want," declared Billina, with a joyful chuckle.

"You can see for yourself that Dorothy is able to use the magic belt
all right," added the Scarecrow.

The Nome King thought it over and finally consented, for he did not
want to be a goose-egg.  So he went into the palace to get the ornament
which was the transformation of the Tin Woodman, and they all awaited
his return with considerable impatience, for they were anxious to leave
this underground cavern and see the sunshine once more.  But when the
Nome King came back he brought nothing with him except a puzzled and
anxious expression upon his face.

"He's gone!" he said.  "The Tin Woodman is nowhere in the palace."

"Are you sure?" asked Ozma, sternly.

"I'm very sure," answered the King, trembling, "for I know just what I
transformed him into, and exactly where he stood.  But he is not there,
and please don't change me into a goose-egg, because I've done the best
I could."

They were all silent for a time, and then Dorothy said:

"There is no use punishing the Nome King any more, and I'm 'fraid we'll
have to go away without our friend."

"If he is not here, we cannot rescue him," agreed the Scarecrow, sadly.
"Poor Nick!  I wonder what has become of him."

"And he owed me six weeks back pay!" said one of the generals, wiping
the tears from his eyes with his gold-laced coat sleeve.

Very sorrowfully they determined to return to the upper world without
their former companion, and so Ozma gave the order to begin the march
through the passage.

The army went first, and then the royal family of Ev, and afterward
came Dorothy, Ozma, Billina, the Scarecrow and Tiktok.

They left the Nome King scowling at them from his throne, and had no
thought of danger until Ozma chanced to look back and saw a large
number of the warriors following them in full chase, with their swords
and spears and axes raised to strike down the fugitives as soon as they
drew near enough.

Evidently the Nome King had made this last attempt to prevent their
escaping him; but it did him no good, for when Dorothy saw the danger
they were in she stopped and waved her hand and whispered a command to
the magic belt.

Instantly the foremost warriors became eggs, which rolled upon the
floor of the cavern in such numbers that those behind could not advance
without stepping upon them.  But, when they saw the eggs, all desire to
advance departed from the warriors, and they turned and fled madly into
the cavern, and refused to go back again.

Our friends had no further trouble in reaching the end of the passage,
and soon were standing in the outer air upon the gloomy path between
the two high mountains.  But the way to Ev lay plainly before them, and
they fervently hoped that they had seen the last of the Nome King and
of his dreadful palace.

The cavalcade was led by Ozma, mounted on the Cowardly Lion, and the
Queen of Ev, who rode upon the back of the Tiger.  The children of the
Queen walked behind her, hand in hand.  Dorothy rode the Sawhorse,
while the Scarecrow walked and commanded the army in the absence of the
Tin Woodman.

Presently the way began to lighten and more of the sunshine to come in
between the two mountains.  And before long they heard the "thump!
thump! thump!" of the giant's hammer upon the road.

"How may we pass the monstrous man of iron?" asked the Queen, anxious
for the safety of her children.  But Dorothy solved the problem by a
word to the magic belt.

The giant paused, with his hammer held motionless in the air, thus
allowing the entire party to pass between his cast-iron legs in safety.




19.  The King of Ev


If there were any shifting, rock-colored Nomes on the mountain side
now, they were silent and respectful, for our adventurers were not
annoyed, as before, by their impudent laughter.  Really the Nomes had
nothing to laugh at, since the defeat of their King.

On the other side they found Ozma's golden chariot, standing as they
had left it.  Soon the Lion and the Tiger were harnessed to the
beautiful chariot, in which was enough room for Ozma and the Queen and
six of the royal children.

Little Evring preferred to ride with Dorothy upon the Sawhorse, which
had a long back.  The Prince had recovered from his shyness and had
become very fond of the girl who had rescued him, so they were fast
friends and chatted pleasantly together as they rode along.  Billina
was also perched upon the head of the wooden steed, which seemed not to
mind the added weight in the least, and the boy was full of wonder that
a hen could talk, and say such sensible things.

When they came to the gulf, Ozma's magic carpet carried them all over
in safety; and now they began to pass the trees, in which birds were
singing; and the breeze that was wafted to them from the farms of Ev
was spicy with flowers and new-mown hay; and the sunshine fell full
upon them, to warm them and drive away from their bodies the chill and
dampness of the underground kingdom of the Nomes.

"I would be quite content," said the Scarecrow to Tiktok, "were only
the Tin Woodman with us.  But it breaks my heart to leave him behind."

"He was a fine fel-low," replied Tiktok, "al-though his ma-ter-i-al was
not ve-ry du-ra-ble."

"Oh, tin is an excellent material," the Scarecrow hastened to say; "and
if anything ever happened to poor Nick Chopper he was always easily
soldered.  Besides, he did not have to be wound up, and was not liable
to get out of order."

"I some-times wish," said Tiktok, "that I was stuffed with straw, as
you are.  It is hard to be made of cop-per."

"I have no reason to complain of my lot," replied the Scarecrow.  "A
little fresh straw, now and then, makes me as good as new.  But I can
never be the polished gentleman that my poor departed friend, the Tin
Woodman, was."

You may be sure the royal children of Ev and their Queen mother were
delighted at seeing again their beloved country; and when the towers of
the palace of Ev came into view they could not forbear cheering at the
sight.  Little Evring, riding in front of Dorothy, was so overjoyed
that he took a curious tin whistle from his pocket and blew a shrill
blast that made the Sawhorse leap and prance in sudden alarm.

"What is that?" asked Billina, who had been obliged to flutter her
wings in order to keep her seat upon the head of the frightened
Sawhorse.

"That's my whistle," said Prince Evring, holding it out upon his hand.

It was in the shape of a little fat pig, made of tin and painted green.
The whistle was in the tail of the pig.

"Where did you get it?" asked the yellow hen, closely examining the toy
with her bright eyes.

"Why, I picked it up in the Nome King's palace, while Dorothy was
making her guesses, and I put it in my pocket," answered the little
Prince.

Billina laughed; or at least she made the peculiar cackle that served
her for a laugh.

"No wonder I couldn't find the Tin Woodman," she said; "and no wonder
the magic belt didn't make him appear, or the King couldn't find him,
either!"

"What do you mean?" questioned Dorothy.

"Why, the Prince had him in his pocket," cried Billina, cackling again.

"I did not!" protested little Evring.  "I only took the whistle."

"Well, then, watch me," returned the hen, and reaching out a claw she
touched the whistle and said "Ev."

Swish!

"Good afternoon," said the Tin Woodman, taking off his funnel cap and
bowing to Dorothy and the Prince.  "I think I must have been asleep for
the first time since I was made of tin, for I do not remember our
leaving the Nome King."

"You have been enchanted," answered the girl, throwing an arm around
her old friend and hugging him tight in her joy.  "But it's all right,
now."

"I want my whistle!" said the little Prince, beginning to cry.

"Hush!" cautioned Billina.  "The whistle is lost, but you may have
another when you get home."

The Scarecrow had fairly thrown himself upon the bosom of his old
comrade, so surprised and delighted was he to see him again, and Tiktok
squeezed the Tin Woodman's hand so earnestly that he dented some of his
fingers.  Then they had to make way for Ozma to welcome the tin man,
and the army caught sight of him and set up a cheer, and everybody was
delighted and happy.

For the Tin Woodman was a great favorite with all who knew him, and his
sudden recovery after they had thought he was lost to them forever was
indeed a pleasant surprise.

Before long the cavalcade arrived at the royal palace, where a great
crowd of people had gathered to welcome their Queen and her ten
children.  There was much shouting and cheering, and the people threw
flowers in their path, and every face wore a happy smile.

They found the Princess Langwidere in her mirrored chamber, where she
was admiring one of her handsomest heads--one with rich chestnut hair,
dreamy walnut eyes and a shapely hickorynut nose.  She was very glad to
be relieved of her duties to the people of Ev, and the Queen graciously
permitted her to retain her rooms and her cabinet of heads as long as
she lived.

Then the Queen took her eldest son out upon a balcony that overlooked
the crowd of subjects gathered below, and said to them:

"Here is your future ruler, King Evardo Fifteenth.  He is fifteen years
of age, has fifteen silver buckles on his jacket and is the fifteenth
Evardo to rule the land of Ev."

The people shouted their approval fifteen times, and even the Wheelers,
some of whom were present, loudly promised to obey the new King.

So the Queen placed a big crown of gold, set with rubies, upon Evardo's
head, and threw an ermine robe over his shoulders, and proclaimed him
King; and he bowed gratefully to all his subjects and then went away to
see if he could find any cake in the royal pantry.

Ozma of Oz and her people, as well as Dorothy, Tiktok and Billina, were
splendidly entertained by the Queen mother, who owed all her happiness
to their kind offices; and that evening the yellow hen was publicly
presented with a beautiful necklace of pearls and sapphires, as a token
of esteem from the new King.




20.  The Emerald City


Dorothy decided to accept Ozma's invitation to return with her to the
Land of Oz.  There was no greater chance of her getting home from Ev
than from Oz, and the little girl was anxious to see once more the
country where she had encountered such wonderful adventures.  By this
time Uncle Henry would have reached Australia in his ship, and had
probably given her up for lost; so he couldn't worry any more than he
did if she stayed away from him a while longer.  So she would go to Oz.

They bade good-bye to the people of Ev, and the King promised Ozma that
he would ever be grateful to her and render the Land of Oz any service
that might lie within his power.

And then they approached the edge of the dangerous desert, and Ozma
threw down the magic carpet, which at once unrolled far enough for all
of them to walk upon it without being crowded.

Tiktok, claiming to be Dorothy's faithful follower because he belonged
to her, had been permitted to join the party, and before they started
the girl wound up his machinery as far as possible, and the copper man
stepped off as briskly as any one of them.

Ozma also invited Billina to visit the Land of Oz, and the yellow hen
was glad enough to go where new sights and scenes awaited her.

They began the trip across the desert early in the morning, and as they
stopped only long enough for Billina to lay her daily egg, before
sunset they espied the green slopes and wooded hills of the beautiful
Land of Oz.  They entered it in the Munchkin territory, and the King of
the Munchkins met them at the border and welcomed Ozma with great
respect, being very pleased by her safe return.  For Ozma of Oz ruled
the King of the Munchkins, the King of the Winkies, the King of the
Quadlings and the King of the Gillikins just as those kings ruled their
own people; and this supreme ruler of the Land of Oz lived in a great
town of her own, called the Emerald City, which was in the exact center
of the four kingdoms of the Land of Oz.

The Munchkin king entertained them at his palace that night, and in the
morning they set out for the Emerald City, travelling over a road of
yellow brick that led straight to the jewel-studded gates.  Everywhere
the people turned out to greet their beloved Ozma, and to hail joyfully
the Scarecrow, the Tin Woodman and the Cowardly Lion, who were popular
favorites.  Dorothy, too, remembered some of the people, who had
befriended her on the occasion of her first visit to Oz, and they were
well pleased to see the little Kansas girl again, and showered her with
compliments and good wishes.

At one place, where they stopped to refresh themselves, Ozma accepted a
bowl of milk from the hands of a pretty dairy-maid.  Then she looked at
the girl more closely, and exclaimed:

"Why, it's Jinjur--isn't it!"

"Yes, your Highness," was the reply, as Jinjur dropped a low curtsy.
And Dorothy looked wonderingly at this lively appearing person, who had
once assembled an army of women and driven the Scarecrow from the
throne of the Emerald City, and even fought a battle with the powerful
army of Glinda the Sorceress.

"I've married a man who owns nine cows," said Jinjur to Ozma, "and now
I am happy and contented and willing to lead a quiet life and mind my
own business."

"Where is your husband?" asked Ozma.

"He is in the house, nursing a black eye," replied Jinjur, calmly.
"The foolish man would insist upon milking the red cow when I wanted
him to milk the white one; but he will know better next time, I am
sure."

Then the party moved on again, and after crossing a broad river on a
ferry and passing many fine farm houses that were dome shaped and
painted a pretty green color, they came in sight of a large building
that was covered with flags and bunting.

"I don't remember that building," said Dorothy.  "What is it?"

"That is the College of Art and Athletic Perfection," replied Ozma.  "I
had it built quite recently, and the Woggle-Bug is its president.  It
keeps him busy, and the young men who attend the college are no worse
off than they were before.  You see, in this country are a number of
youths who do not like to work, and the college is an excellent place
for them."

And now they came in sight of the Emerald City, and the people flocked
out to greet their lovely ruler.  There were several bands and many
officers and officials of the realm, and a crowd of citizens in their
holiday attire.

Thus the beautiful Ozma was escorted by a brilliant procession to her
royal city, and so great was the cheering that she was obliged to
constantly bow to the right and left to acknowledge the greetings of
her subjects.

That evening there was a grand reception in the royal palace, attended
by the most important persons of Oz, and Jack Pumpkinhead, who was a
little overripe but still active, read an address congratulating Ozma
of Oz upon the success of her generous mission to rescue the royal
family of a neighboring kingdom.

Then magnificent gold medals set with precious stones were presented to
each of the twenty-six officers; and the Tin Woodman was given a new
axe studded with diamonds; and the Scarecrow received a silver jar of
complexion powder.  Dorothy was presented with a pretty coronet and
made a Princess of Oz, and Tiktok received two bracelets set with eight
rows of very clear and sparkling emeralds.

Afterward they sat down to a splendid feast, and Ozma put Dorothy at
her right and Billina at her left, where the hen sat upon a golden
roost and ate from a jeweled platter.  Then were placed the Scarecrow,
the Tin Woodman and Tiktok, with baskets of lovely flowers before them,
because they did not require food.  The twenty-six officers were at the
lower end of the table, and the Lion and the Tiger also had seats, and
were served on golden platters, that held a half a bushel at one time.

The wealthiest and most important citizens of the Emerald City were
proud to wait upon these famous adventurers, and they were assisted by
a sprightly little maid named Jellia Jamb, whom the Scarecrow pinched
upon her rosy cheeks and seemed to know very well.

During the feast Ozma grew thoughtful, and suddenly she asked:

"Where is the private?"

"Oh, he is sweeping out the barracks," replied one of the generals, who
was busy eating a leg of a turkey.  "But I have ordered him a dish of
bread and molasses to eat when his work is done."

"Let him be sent for," said the girl ruler.

While they waited for this command to be obeyed, she enquired:

"Have we any other privates in the armies?"

"Oh, yes," replied the Tin Woodman, "I believe there are three,
altogether."

The private now entered, saluting his officers and the royal Ozma very
respectfully.

"What is your name, my man?" asked the girl.

"Omby Amby," answered the private.

"Then, Omby Amby," said she, "I promote you to be Captain General of
all the armies of my kingdom, and especially to be Commander of my Body
Guard at the royal palace."

"It is very expensive to hold so many offices," said the private,
hesitating.  "I have no money with which to buy uniforms."

"You shall be supplied from the royal treasury," said Ozma.

Then the private was given a seat at the table, where the other
officers welcomed him cordially, and the feasting and merriment were
resumed.

Suddenly Jellia Jamb exclaimed:

"There is nothing more to eat!  The Hungry Tiger has consumed
everything!"

"But that is not the worst of it," declared the Tiger, mournfully.
"Somewhere or somehow, I've actually lost my appetite!"




21.  Dorothy's Magic Belt


Dorothy passed several very happy weeks in the Land of Oz as the guest
of the royal Ozma, who delighted to please and interest the little
Kansas girl.  Many new acquaintances were formed and many old ones
renewed, and wherever she went Dorothy found herself among friends.

One day, however, as she sat in Ozma's private room, she noticed
hanging upon the wall a picture which constantly changed in appearance,
at one time showing a meadow and at another time a forest, a lake or a
village.

"How curious!" she exclaimed, after watching the shifting scenes for a
few moments.

"Yes," said Ozma, "that is really a wonderful invention in magic.  If I
wish to see any part of the world or any person living, I need only
express the wish and it is shown in the picture."

"May I use it?" asked Dorothy, eagerly.

"Of course, my dear."

"Then I'd like to see the old Kansas farm, and Aunt Em," said the girl.

Instantly the well remembered farmhouse appeared in the picture, and
Aunt Em could be seen quite plainly.  She was engaged in washing dishes
by the kitchen window and seemed quite well and contented.  The hired
men and the teams were in the harvest fields behind the house, and the
corn and wheat seemed to the child to be in prime condition.  On the
side porch Dorothy's pet dog, Toto, was lying fast asleep in the sun,
and to her surprise old Speckles was running around with a brood of
twelve new chickens trailing after her.

"Everything seems all right at home," said Dorothy, with a sigh of
relief.  "Now I wonder what Uncle Henry is doing."

The scene in the picture at once shifted to Australia, where, in a
pleasant room in Sydney, Uncle Henry was seated in an easy chair,
solemnly smoking his briar pipe.  He looked sad and lonely, and his
hair was now quite white and his hands and face thin and wasted.

"Oh!" cried Dorothy, in an anxious voice, "I'm sure Uncle Henry isn't
getting any better, and it's because he is worried about me.  Ozma,
dear, I must go to him at once!"

"How can you?" asked Ozma.

"I don't know," replied Dorothy; "but let us go to Glinda the Good.
I'm sure she will help me, and advise me how to get to Uncle Henry."

Ozma readily agreed to this plan and caused the Sawhorse to be
harnessed to a pretty green and pink phaeton, and the two girls rode
away to visit the famous sorceress.

Glinda received them graciously, and listened to Dorothy's story with
attention.

"I have the magic belt, you know," said the little girl.  "If I buckled
it around my waist and commanded it to take me to Uncle Henry, wouldn't
it do it?"

"I think so," replied Glinda, with a smile.

"And then," continued Dorothy, "if I ever wanted to come back here
again, the belt would bring me."

"In that you are wrong," said the sorceress.  "The belt has magical
powers only while it is in some fairy country, such as the Land of Oz,
or the Land of Ev.  Indeed, my little friend, were you to wear it and
wish yourself in Australia, with your uncle, the wish would doubtless
be fulfilled, because it was made in fairyland.  But you would not find
the magic belt around you when you arrived at your destination."

"What would become of it?" asked the girl.

"It would be lost, as were your silver shoes when you visited Oz
before, and no one would ever see it again.  It seems too bad to
destroy the use of the magic belt in that way, doesn't it?"

"Then," said Dorothy, after a moment's thought, "I will give the magic
belt to Ozma, for she can use it in her own country.  And she can wish
me transported to Uncle Henry without losing the belt."

"That is a wise plan," replied Glinda.

So they rode back to the Emerald City, and on the way it was arranged
that every Saturday morning Ozma would look at Dorothy in her magic
picture, wherever the little girl might chance to be.  And, if she saw
Dorothy make a certain signal, then Ozma would know that the little
Kansas girl wanted to revisit the Land of Oz, and by means of the Nome
King's magic belt would wish that she might instantly return.

This having been agreed upon, Dorothy bade good-bye to all her friends.
Tiktok wanted to go to Australia; too, but Dorothy knew that the
machine man would never do for a servant in a civilized country, and
the chances were that his machinery wouldn't work at all.  So she left
him in Ozma's care.

Billina, on the contrary, preferred the Land of Oz to any other
country, and refused to accompany Dorothy.

"The bugs and ants that I find here are the finest flavored in the
world," declared the yellow hen, "and there are plenty of them.  So
here I shall end my days; and I must say, Dorothy, my dear, that you
are very foolish to go back into that stupid, humdrum world again."

"Uncle Henry needs me," said Dorothy, simply; and every one except
Billina thought it was right that she should go.

All Dorothy's friends of the Land of Oz--both old and new--gathered in
a group in front of the palace to bid her a sorrowful good-bye and to
wish her long life and happiness.  After much hand shaking, Dorothy
kissed Ozma once more, and then handed her the Nome King's magic belt,
saying:

"Now, dear Princess, when I wave my handkerchief, please wish me with
Uncle Henry.  I'm aw'fly sorry to leave you--and the Scarecrow--and the
Tin Woodman--and the Cowardly Lion--and Tiktok--and--and everybody--but
I do want my Uncle Henry!  So good-bye, all of you."

Then the little girl stood on one of the big emeralds which decorated
the courtyard, and after looking once again at each of her friends,
waved her handkerchief.


"No," said Dorothy, "I wasn't drowned at all.  And I've come to nurse
you and take care of you, Uncle Henry, and you must promise to get well
as soon as poss'ble."

Uncle Henry smiled and cuddled his little niece close in his lap.

"I'm better already, my darling," said he.






Chapter One

The Great Whirlpool


"Seems to me," said Cap'n Bill, as he sat beside Trot under the big
acacia tree, looking out over the blue ocean, "seems to me, Trot, as
how the more we know, the more we find we don't know."

"I can't quite make that out, Cap'n Bill," answered the little girl in
a serious voice, after a moment's thought, during which her eyes
followed those of the old sailor-man across the glassy surface of the
sea. "Seems to me that all we learn is jus' so much gained."

"I know; it looks that way at first sight," said the sailor, nodding
his head; "but those as knows the least have a habit of thinkin' they
know all there is to know, while them as knows the most admits what a
turr'ble big world this is. It's the knowing ones that realize one
lifetime ain't long enough to git more'n a few dips o' the oars of
knowledge."

Trot didn't answer. She was a very little girl, with big, solemn eyes
and an earnest, simple manner. Cap'n Bill had been her faithful
companion for years and had taught her almost everything she knew.

He was a wonderful man, this Cap'n Bill. Not so very old, although his
hair was grizzled--what there was of it. Most of his head was bald as
an egg and as shiny as oilcloth, and this made his big ears stick out
in a funny way. His eyes had a gentle look and were pale blue in color,
and his round face was rugged and bronzed. Cap'n Bill's left leg was
missing, from the knee down, and that was why the sailor no longer
sailed the seas. The wooden leg he wore was good enough to stump around
with on land, or even to take Trot out for a row or a sail on the
ocean, but when it came to "runnin' up aloft" or performing active
duties on shipboard, the old sailor was not equal to the task. The loss
of his leg had ruined his career and the old sailor found comfort in
devoting himself to the education and companionship of the little girl.

The accident to Cap'n Bill's leg bad happened at about the time Trot
was born, and ever since that he had lived with Trot's mother as "a
star boarder," having enough money saved up to pay for his weekly
"keep."  He loved the baby and often held her on his lap; her first
ride was on Cap'n Bill's shoulders, for she had no baby-carriage; and
when she began to toddle around, the child and the sailor became close
comrades and enjoyed many strange adventures together. It is said the
fairies had been present at Trot's birth and had marked her forehead
with their invisible mystic signs, so that she was able to see and do
many wonderful things.

The acacia tree was on top of a high bluff, but a path ran down the
bank in a zigzag way to the water's edge, where Cap'n Bill's boat was
moored to a rock by means of a stout cable. It had been a hot, sultry
afternoon, with scarcely a breath of air stirring, so Cap'n Bill and
Trot had been quietly sitting beneath the shade of the tree, waiting
for the sun to get low enough for them to take a row.

They had decided to visit one of the great caves which the waves had
washed out of the rocky coast during many years of steady effort. The
caves were a source of continual delight to both the girl and the
sailor, who loved to explore their awesome depths.

"I b'lieve, Cap'n," remarked Trot, at last, "that it's time for us to
start."

The old man cast a shrewd glance at the sky, the sea and the motionless
boat. Then he shook his head.

"Mebbe it's time, Trot," he answered, "but I don't jes' like the looks
o' things this afternoon."

"What's wrong?" she asked wonderingly.

"Can't say as to that. Things is too quiet to suit me, that's all. No
breeze, not a ripple a-top the water, nary a gull a-flyin' anywhere,
an' the end o' the hottest day o' the year. I ain't no weather-prophet,
Trot, but any sailor would know the signs is ominous."

"There's nothing wrong that I can see," said Trot.

"If there was a cloud in the sky even as big as my thumb, we might
worry about it; but--look, Cap'n!--the sky is as clear as can be."

He looked again and nodded.

"P'r'aps we can make the cave, all right," he agreed, not wishing to
disappoint her.  "It's only a little way out, an' we'll be on the
watch; so come along, Trot."

Together they descended the winding path to the beach. It was no
trouble for the girl to keep her footing on the steep way, but Cap'n
Bill, because of his wooden leg, had to hold on to rocks and roots now
and then to save himself from tumbling. On a level path he was as spry
as anyone, but to climb up hill or down required some care.

They reached the boat safely and while Trot was untying the rope Cap'n
Bill reached into a crevice of the rock and drew out several tallow
candles and a box of wax matches, which he thrust into the capacious
pockets of his "sou'wester."  This sou'wester was a short coat of
oilskin which the old sailor wore on all occasions--when he wore a coat
at all--and the pockets always contained a variety of objects, useful
and ornamental, which made even Trot wonder where they all came from
and why Cap'n Bill should treasure them. The jackknives--a big one and
a little one--the bits of cord, the fishhooks, the nails: these were
handy to have on certain occasions. But bits of shell, and tin boxes
with unknown contents, buttons, pincers, bottles of curious stones and
the like, seemed quite unnecessary to carry around. That was Cap'n
Bill's business, however, and now that he added the candles and the
matches to his collection Trot made no comment, for she knew these last
were to light their way through the caves. The sailor always rowed the
boat, for he handled the oars with strength and skill. Trot sat in the
stern and steered. The place where they embarked was a little bight or
circular bay, and the boat cut across a much larger bay toward a
distant headland where the caves were located, right at the water's
edge. They were nearly a mile from shore and about halfway across the
bay when Trot suddenly sat up straight and exclaimed: "What's that,
Cap'n?"

He stopped rowing and turned half around to look.

"That, Trot," he slowly replied, "looks to me mighty like a whirlpool."

"What makes it, Cap'n?"

"A whirl in the air makes the whirl in the water. I was afraid as we'd
meet with trouble, Trot. Things didn't look right. The air was too
still."

"It's coming closer," said the girl.

The old man grabbed the oars and began rowing with all his strength.

"'Tain't comin' closer to us, Trot," he gasped; "it's we that are
comin' closer to the whirlpool. The thing is drawin' us to it like a
magnet!"

Trot's sun-bronzed face was a little paler as she grasped the tiller
firmly and tried to steer the boat away; but she said not a word to
indicate fear.

The swirl of the water as they came nearer made a roaring sound that
was fearful to listen to. So fierce and powerful was the whirlpool that
it drew the surface of the sea into the form of a great basin, slanting
downward toward the center, where a big hole had been made in the
ocean--a hole with walls of water that were kept in place by the rapid
whirling of the air.

The boat in which Trot and Cap'n Bill were riding was just on the outer
edge of this saucer-like slant, and the old sailor knew very well that
unless he could quickly force the little craft away from the rushing
current they would soon be drawn into the great black hole that yawned
in the middle. So he exerted all his might and pulled as he had never
pulled before. He pulled so hard that the left oar snapped in two and
sent Cap'n Bill sprawling upon the bottom of the boat.

He scrambled up quickly enough and glanced over the side. Then he
looked at Trot, who sat quite still, with a serious, far-away look in
her sweet eyes. The boat was now speeding swiftly of its own accord,
following the line of the circular basin round and round and gradually
drawing nearer to the great hole in the center. Any further effort to
escape the whirlpool was useless, and realizing this fact Cap'n Bill
turned toward Trot and put an arm around her, as if to shield her from
the awful fate before them.  He did not try to speak, because the roar
of the waters would have drowned the sound of his voice.

These two faithful comrades had faced dangers before, but nothing to
equal that which now faced them. Yet Cap'n Bill, noting the look in
Trot's eyes and remembering how often she had been protected by unseen
powers, did not quite give way to despair.

The great hole in the dark water--now growing nearer and nearer--looked
very terrifying; but they were both brave enough to face it and await
the result of the adventure.




Chapter Two

The Cavern Under the Sea


The circles were so much smaller at the bottom of the basin, and the
boat moved so much more swiftly, that Trot was beginning to get dizzy
with the motion, when suddenly the boat made a leap and dived headlong
into the murky depths of the hole. Whirling like tops, but still
clinging together, the sailor and the girl were separated from their
boat and plunged down--down--down--into the farthermost recesses of the
great ocean.

At first their fall was swift as an arrow, but presently they seemed to
be going more moderately and Trot was almost sure that unseen arms were
about her, supporting her and protecting her. She could see nothing,
because the water filled her eyes and blurred her vision, but she clung
fast to Cap'n Bill's sou'wester, while other arms clung fast to her,
and so they gradually sank down and down until a full stop was made,
when they began to ascend again.

But it seemed to Trot that they were not rising straight to the surface
from where they had come. The water was no longer whirling them and
they seemed to be drawn in a slanting direction through still, cool
ocean depths. And then--in much quicker time than I have told it--up
they popped to the surface and were cast at full length upon a sandy
beach, where they lay choking and gasping for breath and wondering what
had happened to them.

Trot was the first to recover. Disengaging herself from Cap'n Bill's
wet embrace and sitting up, she rubbed the water from her eyes and then
looked around her.  A soft, bluish-green glow lighted the place, which
seemed to be a sort of cavern, for above and on either side of her were
rugged rocks. They had been cast upon a beach of clear sand, which
slanted upward from the pool of water at their feet--a pool which
doubtless led into the big ocean that fed it. Above the reach of the
waves of the pool were more rocks, and still more and more, into the
dim windings and recesses of which the glowing light from the water did
not penetrate.

The place looked grim and lonely, but Trot was thankful that she was
still alive and had suffered no severe injury during her trying
adventure under water. At her side Cap'n Bill was sputtering and
coughing, trying to get rid of the water he had swallowed. Both of them
were soaked through, yet the cavern was warm and comfortable and a
wetting did not dismay the little girl in the least.

She crawled up the slant of sand and gathered in her hand a bunch of
dried seaweed, with which she mopped the face of Cap'n Bill and cleared
the water from his eyes and ears. Presently the old man sat up and
stared at her intently. Then he nodded his bald head three times and
said in a gurgling voice:

"Mighty good, Trot; mighty good! We didn't reach Davy Jones's locker
that time, did we? Though why we didn't, an' why we're here, is more'n
I kin make out."

"Take it easy, Cap'n," she replied. "We're safe enough, I guess, at
least for the time being."

He squeezed the water out of the bottoms of his loose trousers and felt
of his wooden leg and arms and head, and finding he had brought all of
his person with him he gathered courage to examine closely their
surroundings.

"Where d'ye think we are, Trot?" he presently asked.

"Can't say, Cap'n. P'r'aps in one of our caves."

He shook his head. "No," said he, "I don't think that, at all.  The
distance we came up didn't seem half as far as the distance we went
down; an' you'll notice there ain't any outside entrance to this cavern
whatever. It's a reg'lar dome over this pool o' water, and unless
there's some passage at the back, up yonder, we're fast pris'ners."

Trot looked thoughtfully over her shoulder.

"When we're rested," she said, "we will crawl up there and see if
there's a way to get out."

Cap'n Bill reached in the pocket of his oilskin coat and took out his
pipe. It was still dry, for he kept it in an oilskin pouch with his
tobacco. His matches were in a tight tin box, so in a few moments the
old sailor was smoking contentedly. Trot knew it helped him to think
when he was in any difficulty. Also, the pipe did much to restore the
old sailor's composure, after his long ducking and his terrible
fright--a fright that was more on Trot's account than his own.

The sand was dry where they sat, and soaked up the water that dripped
from their clothing. When Trot had squeezed the wet out of her hair she
began to feel much like her old self again. By and by they got upon
their feet and crept up the incline to the scattered boulders above.
Some of these were of huge size, but by passing between some and around
others, they were able to reach the extreme rear of the cavern.

"Yes," said Trot, with interest, "here's a round hole."

"And it's black as night inside it," remarked Cap'n Bill.

"Just the same," answered the girl, "we ought to explore it, and see
where it goes, 'cause it's the only poss'ble way we can get out of this
place."

Cap'n Bill eyed the hole doubtfully

"It may be a way out o' here, Trot," he said, "but it may be a way into
a far worse place than this. I'm not sure but our best plan is to stay
right here."

Trot wasn't sure, either, when she thought of it in that light. After
awhile she made her way back to the sands again, and Cap'n Bill
followed her. As they sat down, the child looked thoughtfully at the
sailor's bulging pockets.

"How much food have we got, Cap'n?" she asked.

"Half a dozen ship's biscuits an' a hunk o' cheese," he replied. "Want
some now, Trot?"

She shook her head, saying:

"That ought to keep us alive 'bout three days if we're careful of it."

"Longer'n that, Trot," said Cap'n Bill, but his voice was a little
troubled and unsteady.

"But if we stay here we're bound to starve in time," continued the
girl, "while if we go into the dark hole--"

"Some things are more hard to face than starvation," said the
sailor-man, gravely. "We don't know what's inside that dark hole: Trot,
nor where it might lead us to."

"There's a way to find that out," she persisted.

Instead of replying, Cap'n Bill began searching in his pockets. He soon
drew out a little package of fish-hooks and a long line. Trot watched
him join them together. Then he crept a little way up the slope and
turned over a big rock. Two or three small crabs began scurrying away
over the sands and the old sailor caught them and put one on his hook
and the others in his pocket. Coming back to the pool he swung the hook
over his shoulder and circled it around his head and cast it nearly
into the center of the water, where he allowed it to sink gradually,
paying out the line as far as it would go. When the end was reached, he
began drawing it in again, until the crab bait was floating on the
surface.

Trot watched him cast the line a second time, and a third. She decided
that either there were no fishes in the pool or they would not bite the
crab bait. But Cap'n Bill was an old fisherman and not easily
discouraged. When the crab got away he put another on the hook. When
the crabs were all gone he climbed up the rocks and found some more.

Meantime Trot tired of watching him and lay down upon the sands, where
she fell fast asleep. During the next two hours her clothing dried
completely, as did that of the old sailor. They were both so used to
salt water that there was no danger of taking cold.

Finally the little girl was wakened by a splash beside her and a grunt
of satisfaction from Cap'n Bill. She opened her eyes to find that the
Cap'n had landed a silver-scaled fish weighing about two pounds. This
cheered her considerably and she hurried to scrape together a heap of
seaweed, while Cap'n Bill cut up the fish with his jackknife and got it
ready for cooking.

They had cooked fish with seaweed before. Cap'n Bill wrapped his fish
in some of the weed and dipped it in the water to dampen it. Then he
lighted a match and set fire to Trot's heap, which speedily burned down
to a glowing bed of ashes. Then they laid the wrapped fish on the
ashes, covered it with more seaweed, and allowed this to catch fire and
burn to embers. After feeding the fire with seaweed for some time, the
sailor finally decided that their supper was ready, so he scattered the
ashes and drew out the bits of fish, still encased in their smoking
wrappings.

When these wrappings were removed, the fish was found thoroughly cooked
and both Trot and Cap'n Bill ate of it freely. It had a slight flavor
of seaweed and would have been better with a sprinkling of salt.

The soft glow which until now had lighted the cavern, began to grow
dim, but there was a great quantity of seaweed in the place, so after
they had eaten their fish they kept the fire alive for a time by giving
it a handful of fuel now and then.

From an inner pocket the sailor drew a small flask of battered metal
and unscrewing the cap handed it to Trot.  She took but one swallow of
the water although she wanted more, and she noticed that Cap'n Bill
merely wet his lips with it.

"S'pose," said she, staring at the glowing seaweed fire and speaking
slowly, "that we can catch all the fish we need; how 'bout the
drinking-water, Cap'n?"

He moved uneasily but did not reply. Both of them were thinking about
the dark hole, but while Trot had little fear of it the old man could
not overcome his dislike to enter the place. He knew that Trot was
right, though. To remain in the cavern, where they now were, could only
result in slow but sure death.

It was nighttime up on the earth's surface, so the little girl became
drowsy and soon fell asleep. After a time the old sailor slumbered on
the sands beside her. It was very still and nothing disturbed them for
hours. When at last they awoke the cavern was light again.

They had divided one of the biscuits and were munching it for breakfast
when they were startled by a sudden splash in the pool. Looking toward
it they saw emerging from the water the most curious creature either of
them had ever beheld. It wasn't a fish, Trot decided, nor was it a
beast. It had wings, though, and queer wings they were: shaped like an
inverted chopping-bowl and covered with tough skin instead of feathers.
It had four legs--much like the legs of a stork, only double the
number--and its head was shaped a good deal like that of a poll parrot,
with a beak that curved downward in front and upward at the edges, and
was half bill and half mouth. But to call it a bird was out of the
question, because it had no feathers whatever except a crest of wavy
plumes of a scarlet color on the very top of its head. The strange
creature must have weighed as much as Cap'n Bill, and as it floundered
and struggled to get out of the water to the sandy beach it was so big
and unusual that both Trot and her companion stared at it in wonder--in
wonder that was not unmixed with fear.




Chapter Three

The Ork


The eyes that regarded them, as the creature stood dripping before
them, were bright and mild in expression, and the queer addition to
their party made no attempt to attack them and seemed quite as
surprised by the meeting as they were.

"I wonder," whispered Trot, "what it is."

"Who, me?" exclaimed the creature in a shrill, high-pitched voice.
"Why, I'm an Ork."

"Oh!" said the girl. "But what is an Ork?"

"I am," he repeated, a little proudly, as he shook the water from his
funny wings; "and if ever an Ork was glad to be out of the water and on
dry land again, you can be mighty sure that I'm that especial,
individual Ork!"

"Have you been in the water long?" inquired Cap'n Bill, thinking it
only polite to show an interest in the strange creature.

"Why, this last ducking was about ten minutes, I believe, and that's
about nine minutes and sixty seconds too long for comfort," was the
reply. "But last night I was in an awful pickle, I assure you. The
whirlpool caught me, and--"

"Oh, were you in the whirlpool, too?" asked Trot eagerly.

He gave her a glance that was somewhat reproachful.

"I believe I was mentioning the fact, young lady, when your desire to
talk interrupted me," said the Ork. "I am not usually careless in my
actions, but that whirlpool was so busy yesterday that I thought I'd
see what mischief it was up to. So I flew a little too near it and the
suction of the air drew me down into the depths of the ocean. Water and
I are natural enemies, and it would have conquered me this time had not
a bevy of pretty mermaids come to my assistance and dragged me away
from the whirling water and far up into a cavern, where they deserted
me."

"Why, that's about the same thing that happened to us," cried Trot.
"Was your cavern like this one?"

"I haven't examined this one yet," answered the Ork; "but if they
happen to be alike I shudder at our fate, for the other one was a
prison, with no outlet except by means of the water.  I stayed there
all night, however, and this morning I plunged into the pool, as far
down as I could go, and then swam as hard and as far as I could. The
rocks scraped my back, now and then, and I barely escaped the clutches
of an ugly sea-monster; but by and by I came to the surface to catch my
breath, and found myself here. That's the whole story, and as I see you
have something to eat I entreat you to give me a share of it. The truth
is, I'm half starved."

With these words the Ork squatted down beside them. Very reluctantly
Cap'n Bill drew another biscuit from his pocket and held it out. The
Ork promptly seized it in one of its front claws and began to nibble
the biscuit in much the same manner a parrot might have done.

"We haven't much grub," said the sailor-man, "but we're willin' to
share it with a comrade in distress."

"That's right," returned the Ork, cocking its head sidewise in a
cheerful manner, and then for a few minutes there was silence while
they all ate of the biscuits. After a while Trot said:

"I've never seen or heard of an Ork before. Are there many of you?"

"We are rather few and exclusive, I believe," was the reply. "In the
country where I was born we are the absolute rulers of all living
things, from ants to elephants."

"What country is that?" asked Cap'n Bill.

"Orkland."

"Where does it lie?"

"I don't know, exactly. You see, I have a restless nature, for some
reason, while all the rest of my race are quiet and contented Orks and
seldom stray far from home. From childhood days I loved to fly long
distances away, although father often warned me that I would get into
trouble by so doing.

"'It's a big world, Flipper, my son,' he would say, 'and I've heard
that in parts of it live queer two-legged creatures called Men, who war
upon all other living things and would have little respect for even an
Ork.'

"This naturally aroused my curiosity and after I had completed my
education and left school I decided to fly out into the world and try
to get a glimpse of the creatures called Men. So I left home without
saying good-bye, an act I shall always regret. Adventures were many, I
found. I sighted men several times, but have never before been so close
to them as now. Also I had to fight my way through the air, for I met
gigantic birds, with fluffy feathers all over them, which attacked me
fiercely. Besides, it kept me busy escaping from floating airships. In
my rambling I had lost all track of distance or direction, so that when
I wanted to go home I had no idea where my country was located. I've
now been trying to find it for several months and it was during one of
my flights over the ocean that I met the whirlpool and became its
victim."

Trot and Cap'n Bill listened to this recital with much interest, and
from the friendly tone and harmless appearance of the Ork they judged
he was not likely to prove so disagreeable a companion as at first they
had feared he might be.

The Ork sat upon its haunches much as a cat does, but used the
finger-like claws of its front legs almost as cleverly as if they were
hands. Perhaps the most curious thing about the creature was its tail,
or what ought to have been its tail. This queer arrangement of skin,
bones and muscle was shaped like the propellers used on boats and
airships, having fan-like surfaces and being pivoted to its body. Cap'n
Bill knew something of mechanics, and observing the propeller-like tail
of the Ork he said:

"I s'pose you're a pretty swift flyer?"

"Yes, indeed; the Orks are admitted to be Kings of the Air."

"Your wings don't seem to amount to much," remarked Trot.

"Well, they are not very big," admitted the Ork, waving the four hollow
skins gently to and fro, "but they serve to support my body in the air
while I speed along by means of my tail. Still, taken altogether, I'm
very handsomely formed, don't you think?"

Trot did not like to reply, but Cap'n Bill nodded gravely. "For an
Ork," said he, "you're a wonder. I've never seen one afore, but I can
imagine you're as good as any."

That seemed to please the creature and it began walking around the
cavern, making its way easily up the slope. While it was gone, Trot and
Cap'n Bill each took another sip from the water-flask, to wash down
their breakfast.

"Why, here's a hole--an exit--an outlet!" exclaimed the Ork from above.

"We know," said Trot. "We found it last night."

"Well, then, let's be off," continued the Ork, after sticking its head
into the black hole and sniffing once or twice. "The air seems fresh
and sweet, and it can't lead us to any worse place than this."

The girl and the sailor-man got up and climbed to the side of the Ork.

"We'd about decided to explore this hole before you came," explained
Cap'n Bill; "but it's a dangerous place to navigate in the dark, so
wait till I light a candle."

"What is a candle?" inquired the Ork.

"You'll see in a minute," said Trot.

The old sailor drew one of the candles from his right-side pocket and
the tin matchbox from his left-side pocket. When he lighted the match
the Ork gave a startled jump and eyed the flame suspiciously; but Cap'n
Bill proceeded to light the candle and the action interested the Ork
very much.

"Light," it said, somewhat nervously, "is valuable in a hole of this
sort. The candle is not dangerous, I hope?"

"Sometimes it burns your fingers," answered Trot, "but that's about the
worst it can do--'cept to blow out when you don't want it to."

Cap'n Bill shielded the flame with his hand and crept into the hole. It
wasn't any too big for a grown man, but after he had crawled a few feet
it grew larger.  Trot came close behind him and then the Ork followed.

"Seems like a reg'lar tunnel," muttered the sailor-man, who was
creeping along awkwardly because of his wooden leg. The rocks, too,
hurt his knees.

For nearly half an hour the three moved slowly along the tunnel, which
made many twists and turns and sometimes slanted downward and sometimes
upward. Finally Cap'n Bill stopped short, with an exclamation of
disappointment, and held the flickering candle far ahead to light the
scene.

"What's wrong?" demanded Trot, who could see nothing because the
sailor's form completely filled the hole.

"Why, we've come to the end of our travels, I guess," he replied.

"Is the hole blocked?" inquired the Ork.

"No; it's wuss nor that," replied Cap'n Bill sadly. "I'm on the edge of
a precipice. Wait a minute an' I'll move along and let you see for
yourselves. Be careful, Trot, not to fall."

Then he crept forward a little and moved to one side, holding the
candle so that the girl could see to follow him. The Ork came next and
now all three knelt on a narrow ledge of rock which dropped straight
away and left a huge black space which the tiny flame of the candle
could not illuminate.

"H-m!" said the Ork, peering over the edge; "this doesn't look very
promising, I'll admit. But let me take your candle, and I'll fly down
and see what's below us."

"Aren't you afraid?" asked Trot.

"Certainly I'm afraid," responded the Ork. "But if we intend to escape
we can't stay on this shelf forever. So, as I notice you poor creatures
cannot fly, it is my duty to explore the place for you."

Cap'n Bill handed the Ork the candle, which had now burned to about
half its length. The Ork took it in one claw rather cautiously and then
tipped its body forward and slipped over the edge. They heard a queer
buzzing sound, as the tail revolved, and a brisk flapping of the
peculiar wings, but they were more interested just then in following
with their eyes the tiny speck of light which marked the location of
the candle. This light first made a great circle, then dropped slowly
downward and suddenly was extinguished, leaving everything before them
black as ink.

"Hi, there! How did that happen?" cried the Ork.

"It blew out, I guess," shouted Cap'n Bill. "Fetch it here."

"I can't see where you are," said the Ork.

So Cap'n Bill got out another candle and lighted it, and its flame
enabled the Ork to fly back to them. It alighted on the edge and held
out the bit of candle.

"What made it stop burning?" asked the creature.

"The wind," said Trot. "You must be more careful, this time."

"What's the place like?" inquired Cap'n Bill.

"I don't know, yet; but there must be a bottom to it, so I'll try to
find it."

With this the Ork started out again and this time sank downward more
slowly. Down, down, down it went, till the candle was a mere spark, and
then it headed away to the left and Trot and Cap'n Bill lost all sight
of it.

In a few minutes, however, they saw the spark of light again, and as
the sailor still held the second lighted candle the Ork made straight
toward them. It was only a few yards distant when suddenly it dropped
the candle with a cry of pain and next moment alighted, fluttering
wildly, upon the rocky ledge.

"What's the matter?" asked Trot.

"It bit me!" wailed the Ork. "I don't like your candles. The thing
began to disappear slowly as soon as I took it in my claw, and it grew
smaller and smaller until just now it turned and bit me--a most
unfriendly thing to do. Oh--oh! Ouch, what a bite!"

"That's the nature of candles, I'm sorry to say," explained Cap'n Bill,
with a grin. "You have to handle 'em mighty keerful. But tell us, what
did you find down there?"

"I found a way to continue our journey," said the Ork, nursing tenderly
the claw which had been burned. "Just below us is a great lake of black
water, which looked so cold and wicked that it made me shudder; but
away at the left there's a big tunnel, which we can easily walk
through. I don't know where it leads to, of course, but we must follow
it and find out." "why, we can't get to it," protested the little girl.
"We can't fly, as you do, you must remember."

"No, that's true," replied the Ork musingly. "Your bodies are built
very poorly, it seems to me, since all you can do is crawl upon the
earth's surface. But you may ride upon my back, and in that way I can
promise you a safe journey to the tunnel."

"Are you strong enough to carry us?" asked Cap'n Bill, doubtfully.

"Yes, indeed; I'm strong enough to carry a dozen of you, if you could
find a place to sit," was the reply; "but there's only room between my
wings for one at a time, so I'll have to make two trips."

"All right; I'll go first," decided Cap'n Bill.

He lit another candle for Trot to hold while they were gone and to
light the Ork on his return to her, and then the old sailor got upon
the Ork's back, where he sat with his wooden leg sticking straight out
sidewise.

"If you start to fall, clasp your arms around my neck," advised the
creature.

"If I start to fall, it's good night an' pleasant dreams," said Cap'n
Bill.

"All ready?" asked the Ork.

"Start the buzz-tail," said Cap'n Bill, with a tremble in his voice.
But the Ork flew away so gently that the old man never even tottered in
his seat. Trot watched the light of Cap'n Bill's candle till it
disappeared in the far distance. She didn't like to be left alone on
this dangerous ledge, with a lake of black water hundreds of feet below
her; but she was a brave little girl and waited patiently for the
return of the Ork. It came even sooner than she had expected and the
creature said to her:

"Your friend is safe in the tunnel. Now, then, get aboard and I'll
carry you to him in a jiffy."

I'm sure not many little girls would have cared to take that awful ride
through the huge black cavern on the back of a skinny Ork. Trot didn't
care for it, herself, but it just had to be done and so she did it as
courageously as possible. Her heart beat fast and she was so nervous
she could scarcely hold the candle in her fingers as the Ork sped
swiftly through the darkness.

It seemed like a long ride to her, yet in reality the Ork covered the
distance in a wonderfully brief period of time and soon Trot stood
safely beside Cap'n Bill on the level floor of a big arched tunnel. The
sailor-man was very glad to greet his little comrade again and both
were grateful to the Ork for his assistance.

"I dunno where this tunnel leads to," remarked Cap'n Bill, "but it
surely looks more promisin' than that other hole we crept through."

"When the Ork is rested," said Trot, "we'll travel on and see what
happens."

"Rested!" cried the Ork, as scornfully as his shrill voice would allow.
"That bit of flying didn't tire me at all. I'm used to flying days at a
time, without ever once stopping."

"Then let's move on," proposed Cap'n Bill. He still held in his hand
one lighted candle, so Trot blew out the other flame and placed her
candle in the sailor's big pocket. She knew it was not wise to burn two
candles at once.

The tunnel was straight and smooth and very easy to walk through, so
they made good progress. Trot thought that the tunnel began about two
miles from the cavern where they had been cast by the whirlpool, but
now it was impossible to guess the miles traveled, for they walked
steadily for hours and hours without any change in their surroundings.

Finally Cap'n Bill stopped to rest.

"There's somethin' queer about this 'ere tunnel, I'm certain," he
declared, wagging his head dolefully. "Here's three candles gone
a'ready, an' only three more left us, yet the tunnel's the same as it
was when we started. An' how long it's goin' to keep up, no one knows."

"Couldn't we walk without a light?" asked Trot. "The way seems safe
enough."

"It does right now," was the reply, "but we can't tell when we are
likely to come to another gulf, or somethin' jes' as dangerous. In that
case we'd be killed afore we knew it."

"Suppose I go ahead?" suggested the Ork.  "I don't fear a fall, you
know, and if anything happens I'll call out and warn you."

"That's a good idea," declared Trot, and Cap'n Bill thought so, too. So
the Ork started off ahead, quite in the dark, and hand in band the two
followed him.

When they had walked in this way for a good long time the Ork halted
and demanded food. Cap'n Bill had not mentioned food because there was
so little left--only three biscuits and a lump of cheese about as big
as his two fingers--but he gave the Ork half of a biscuit, sighing as
he did so. The creature didn't care for the cheese, so the sailor
divided it between himself and Trot. They lighted a candle and sat down
in the tunnel while they ate.

"My feet hurt me," grumbled the Ork.  "I'm not used to walking and this
rocky passage is so uneven and lumpy that it hurts me to walk upon it."

"Can't you fly along?" asked Trot.

"No; the roof is too low," said the Ork.

After the meal they resumed their journey, which Trot began to fear
would never end. When Cap'n Bill noticed how tired the little girl was,
he paused and lighted a match and looked at his big silver watch.

"Why, it's night!" he exclaimed. "We've tramped all day, an' still
we're in this awful passage, which mebbe goes straight through the
middle of the world, an' mebbe is a circle--in which case we can keep
walkin' till doomsday. Not knowin' what's before us so well as we know
what's behind us, I propose we make a stop, now, an' try to sleep till
mornin'."

"That will suit me," asserted the Ork, with a groan. "My feet are
hurting me dreadfully and for the last few miles I've been limping with
pain."

"My foot hurts, too," said the sailor, looking for a smooth place on
the rocky floor to sit down.

"Your foot!" cried the Ork. "why, you've only one to hurt you, while I
have four. So I suffer four times as much as you possibly can. Here;
hold the candle while I look at the bottoms of my claws. I declare," he
said, examining them by the flickering light, "there are bunches of
pain all over them!"

"P'r'aps," said Trot, who was very glad to sit down beside her
companions, "you've got corns."

"Corns? Nonsense! Orks never have corns," protested the creature,
rubbing its sore feet tenderly.

"Then mebbe they're--they're-- What do you call 'em, Cap'n Bill?
Something 'bout the Pilgrim's Progress, you know."

"Bunions," said Cap'n Bill.

"Oh, yes; mebbe you've got bunions."

"It is possible," moaned the Ork.  "But whatever they are, another day
of such walking on them would drive me crazy."

"I'm sure they'll feel better by mornin'," said Cap'n Bill,
encouragingly. "Go to sleep an' try to forget your sore feet."

The Ork cast a reproachful look at the sailor-man, who didn't see it.
Then the creature asked plaintively: "Do we eat now, or do we starve?"

"There's only half a biscuit left for you," answered Cap'n Bill. "No
one knows how long we'll have to stay in this dark tunnel, where
there's nothing whatever to eat; so I advise you to save that morsel o'
food till later."

"Give it me now!" demanded the Ork. "If I'm going to starve, I'll do it
all at once--not by degrees."

Cap'n Bill produced the biscuit and the creature ate it in a trice.
Trot was rather hungry and whispered to Cap'n Bill that she'd take part
of her share; but the old man secretly broke his own half-biscuit in
two, saving Trot's share for a time of greater need.

He was beginning to be worried over the little girl's plight and long
after she was asleep and the Ork was snoring in a rather disagreeable
manner, Cap'n Bill sat with his back to a rock and smoked his pipe and
tried to think of some way to escape from this seemingly endless
tunnel. But after a time he also slept, for hobbling on a wooden leg
all day was tiresome, and there in the dark slumbered the three
adventurers for many hours, until the Ork roused itself and kicked the
old sailor with one foot.

"It must be another day," said he.




Chapter Four

Daylight at Last


Cap'n Bill rubbed his eyes, lit a match and consulted his watch.

"Nine o'clock.  Yes, I guess it's another day, sure enough. Shall we go
on?" he asked.

"Of course," replied the Ork. "Unless this tunnel is different from
everything else in the world, and has no end, we'll find a way out of
it sooner or later."

The sailor gently wakened Trot. She felt much rested by her long sleep
and sprang to her feet eagerly.

"Let's start, Cap'n," was all she said.

They resumed the journey and had only taken a few steps when the Ork
cried "Wow!" and made a great fluttering of its wings and whirling of
its tail. The others, who were following a short distance behind,
stopped abruptly.

"What's the matter?" asked Cap'n Bill.

"Give us a light," was the reply. "I think we've come to the end of the
tunnel." Then, while Cap'n Bill lighted a candle, the creature added:
"If that is true, we needn't have wakened so soon, for we were almost
at the end of this place when we went to sleep."

The sailor-man and Trot came forward with a light. A wall of rock
really faced the tunnel, but now they saw that the opening made a sharp
turn to the left. So they followed on, by a narrower passage, and then
made another sharp turn this time to the right.

"Blow out the light, Cap'n," said the Ork, in a pleased voice. "We've
struck daylight."

Daylight at last! A shaft of mellow light fell almost at their feet as
Trot and the sailor turned the corner of the passage, but it came from
above, and raising their eyes they found they were at the bottom of a
deep, rocky well, with the top far, far above their heads. And here the
passage ended.

For a while they gazed in silence, at least two of them being filled
with dismay at the sight. But the Ork merely whistled softly and said
cheerfully:

"That was the toughest journey I ever had the misfortune to undertake,
and I'm glad it's over. Yet, unless I can manage to fly to the top of
this pit, we are entombed here forever."

"Do you think there is room enough for you to fly in?" asked the little
girl anxiously; and Cap'n Bill added:

"It's a straight-up shaft, so I don't see how you'll ever manage it."

"Were I an ordinary bird--one of those horrid feathered things--I
wouldn't even make the attempt to fly out," said the Ork.  "But my
mechanical propeller tail can accomplish wonders, and whenever you're
ready I'll show you a trick that is worth while."

"Oh!" exclaimed Trot; "do you intend to take us up, too?"

"Why not?"

"I thought," said Cap'n Bill, "as you'd go first, an' then send
somebody to help us by lettin' down a rope."

"Ropes are dangerous," replied the Ork, "and I might not be able to
find one to reach all this distance. Besides, it stands to reason that
if I can get out myself I can also carry you two with me."

"Well, I'm not afraid," said Trot, who longed to be on the earth's
surface again.

"S'pose we fall?" suggested Cap'n Bill, doubtfully.

"Why, in that case we would all fall together," returned the Ork. "Get
aboard, little girl; sit across my shoulders and put both your arms
around my neck."

Trot obeyed and when she was seated on the Ork, Cap'n Bill inquired:

"How 'bout me, Mr. Ork?"

"Why, I think you'd best grab hold of my rear legs and let me carry you
up in that manner," was the reply.

Cap'n Bill looked way up at the top of the well, and then he looked at
the Ork's slender, skinny legs and heaved a deep sigh.

"It's goin' to be some dangle, I guess; but if you don't waste too much
time on the way up, I may be able to hang on," said he.

"All ready, then!" cried the Ork, and at once his whirling tail began
to revolve. Trot felt herself rising into the air; when the creature's
legs left the ground Cap'n Bill grasped two of them firmly and held on
for dear life.  The Ork's body was tipped straight upward, and Trot had
to embrace the neck very tightly to keep from sliding off. Even in this
position the Ork had trouble in escaping the rough sides of the well.
Several times it exclaimed "Wow!" as it bumped its back, or a wing hit
against some jagged projection; but the tail kept whirling with
remarkable swiftness and the daylight grew brighter and brighter. It
was, indeed, a long journey from the bottom to the top, yet almost
before Trot realized they had come so far, they popped out of the hole
into the clear air and sunshine and a moment later the Ork alighted
gently upon the ground.

The release was so sudden that even with the creature's care for its
passengers Cap'n Bill struck the earth with a shock that sent him
rolling heel over head; but by the time Trot had slid down from her
seat the old sailor-man was sitting up and looking around him with much
satisfaction.

"It's sort o' pretty here," said he.

"Earth is a beautiful place!" cried Trot.

"I wonder where on earth we are?" pondered the Ork, turning first one
bright eye and then the other to this side and that. Trees there were,
in plenty, and shrubs and flowers and green turf. But there were no
houses; there were no paths; there was no sign of civilization whatever.

"Just before I settled down on the ground I thought I caught a view of
the ocean," said the Ork. "Let's see if I was right." Then he flew to a
little hill, near by, and Trot and Cap'n Bill followed him more slowly.
When they stood on the top of the hill they could see the blue waves of
the ocean in front of them, to the right of them, and at the left of
them. Behind the hill was a forest that shut out the view.

"I hope it ain't an island, Trot," said Cap'n Bill gravely.

"If it is, I s'pose we're prisoners," she replied.

"Ezzackly so, Trot."

"But, 'even so, it's better than those terr'ble underground tunnels and
caverns," declared the girl.

"You are right, little one," agreed the Ork. "Anything above ground is
better than the best that lies under ground. So let's not quarrel with
our fate but be thankful we've escaped."

"We are, indeed!" she replied. "But I wonder if we can find something
to eat in this place?"

"Let's explore an' find out," proposed Cap'n Bill. "Those trees over at
the left look like cherry-trees."

On the way to them the explorers had to walk through a tangle of vines
and Cap'n Bill, who went first, stumbled and pitched forward on his
face.

"Why, it's a melon!" cried Trot delightedly, as she saw what had caused
the sailor to fall.

Cap'n Bill rose to his foot, for he was not at all hurt, and examined
the melon. Then he took his big jackknife from his pocket and cut the
melon open. It was quite ripe and looked delicious; but the old man
tasted it before he permitted Trot to eat any. Deciding it was good he
gave her a big slice and then offered the Ork some. The creature looked
at the fruit somewhat disdainfully, at first, but once he had tasted
its flavor he ate of it as heartily as did the others. Among the vines
they discovered many other melons, and Trot said gratefully: "Well,
there's no danger of our starving, even if this is an island."

"Melons," remarked Cap'n Bill, "are both food an' water. We couldn't
have struck anything better."

Farther on they came to the cherry trees, where they obtained some of
the fruit, and at the edge of the little forest were wild plums. The
forest itself consisted entirely of nut trees--walnuts, filberts,
almonds and chestnuts--so there would be plenty of wholesome food for
them while they remained there.

Cap'n Bill and Trot decided to walk through the forest, to discover
what was on the other side of it, but the Ork's feet were still so sore
and "lumpy" from walking on the rocks that the creature said he
preferred to fly over the tree-tops and meet them on the other side.
The forest was not large, so by walking briskly for fifteen minutes
they reached its farthest edge and saw before them the shore of the
ocean.

"It's an island, all right," said Trot, with a sigh.

"Yes, and a pretty island, too," said Cap'n Bill, trying to conceal his
disappointment on Trot's account. "I guess, partner, if the wuss comes
to the wuss, I could build a raft--or even a boat--from those trees,
so's we could sail away in it."

The little girl brightened at this suggestion. "I don't see the Ork
anywhere," she remarked, looking around. Then her eyes lighted upon
something and she exclaimed: "Oh, Cap'n Bill! Isn't that a house, over
there to the left?"

Cap'n Bill, looking closely, saw a shed-like structure built at one
edge of the forest.

"Seems like it, Trot. Not that I'd call it much of a house, but it's a
buildin', all right. Let's go over an' see if it's occypied."




Chapter Five

The Little Old Man of the Island


A few steps brought them to the shed, which was merely a roof of boughs
built over a square space, with some branches of trees fastened to the
sides to keep off the wind. The front was quite open and faced the sea,
and as our friends came nearer they observed a little man, with a long
pointed beard, sitting motionless on a stool and staring thoughtfully
out over the water.

"Get out of the way, please," he called in a fretful voice. "Can't you
see you are obstructing my view?"

"Good morning," said Cap'n Bill, politely.

"It isn't a good morning!" snapped the little man. "I've seen plenty of
mornings better than this.  Do you call it a good morning when I'm
pestered with such a crowd as you?"

Trot was astonished to hear such words from a stranger whom they had
greeted quite properly, and Cap'n Bill grew red at the little man's
rudeness. But the sailor said, in a quiet tone of voice:

"Are you the only one as lives on this 'ere island?"

"Your grammar's bad," was the reply. "But this is my own exclusive
island, and I'll thank you to get off it as soon as possible."

"We'd like to do that," said Trot, and then she and Cap'n Bill turned
away and walked down to the shore, to see if any other land was in
sight.

The little man rose and followed them, although both were now too
provoked to pay any attention to him.

"Nothin' in sight, partner," reported Cap'n Bill, shading his eyes with
his hand; "so we'll have to stay here for a time, anyhow. It isn't a
bad place, Trot, by any means."

"That's all you know about it!" broke in the little man. "The trees are
altogether too green and the rocks are harder than they ought to be. I
find the sand very grainy and the water dreadfully wet. Every breeze
makes a draught and the sun shines in the daytime, when there's no need
of it, and disappears just as soon as it begins to get dark. If you
remain here you'll find the island very unsatisfactory."

Trot turned to look at him, and her sweet face was grave and curious.

"I wonder who you are," she said.

"My name is Pessim," said he, with an air of pride. "I'm called the
Observer."

"Oh. What do you observe?" asked the little girl.

"Everything I see," was the reply, in a more surly tone. Then Pessim
drew back with a startled exclamation and looked at some footprints in
the sand. "Why, good gracious me!" he cried in distress.

"What's the matter now?" asked Cap'n Bill.

"Someone has pushed the earth in!  Don't you see it?

"It isn't pushed in far enough to hurt anything," said Trot, examining
the footprints.

"Everything hurts that isn't right," insisted the man. "If the earth
were pushed in a mile, it would be a great calamity, wouldn't it?"

"I s'pose so," admitted the little girl.

"Well, here it is pushed in a full inch!  That's a twelfth of a foot,
or a little more than a millionth part of a mile.  Therefore it is
one-millionth part of a calamity--Oh, dear! How dreadful!" said Pessim
in a wailing voice.

"Try to forget it, sir," advised Cap'n Bill, soothingly. "It's
beginning to rain. Let's get under your shed and keep dry."

"Raining!  Is it really raining?" asked Pessim, beginning to weep.

"It is," answered Cap'n Bill, as the drops began to descend, "and I
don't see any way to stop it--although I'm some observer myself."

"No; we can't stop it, I fear," said the man. "Are you very busy just
now?"

"I won't be after I get to the shed," replied the sailor-man.

"Then do me a favor, please," begged Pessim, walking briskly along
behind them, for they were hastening to the shed.

"Depends on what it is," said Cap'n Bill.

"I wish you would take my umbrella down to the shore and hold it over
the poor fishes till it stops raining. I'm afraid they'll get wet,"
said Pessim.

Trot laughed, but Cap'n Bill thought the little man was poking fun at
him and so he scowled upon Pessim in a way that showed he was angry.

They reached the shed before getting very wet, although the rain was
now coming down in big drops. The roof of the shed protected them and
while they stood watching the rainstorm something buzzed in and circled
around Pessim's head. At once the Observer began beating it away with
his hands, crying out:

"A bumblebee! A bumblebee! The queerest bumblebee I ever saw!"

Cap'n Bill and Trot both looked at it and the little girl said in
surprise:

"Dear me! It's a wee little Ork!"

"That's what it is, sure enough," exclaimed Cap'n Bill.

Really, it wasn't much bigger than a big bumblebee, and when it came
toward Trot she allowed it to alight on her shoulder.

"It's me, all right," said a very small voice in her ear; "but I'm in
an awful pickle, just the same!"

"What, are you our Ork, then?" demanded the girl, much amazed.

"No, I'm my own Ork. But I'm the only Ork you know," replied the tiny
creature.

"What's happened to you?" asked the sailor, putting his head close to
Trot's shoulder in order to hear the reply better. Pessim also put his
head close, and the Ork said:

"You will remember that when I left you I started to fly over the
trees, and just as I got to this side of the forest I saw a bush that
was loaded down with the most luscious fruit you can imagine.  The
fruit was about the size of a gooseberry and of a lovely lavender
color. So I swooped down and picked off one in my bill and ate it. At
once I began to grow small. I could feel myself shrinking, shrinking
away, and it frightened me terribly, so that I lighted on the ground to
think over what was happening. In a few seconds I had shrunk to the
size you now see me; but there I remained, getting no smaller, indeed,
but no larger. It is certainly a dreadful affliction! After I had
recovered somewhat from the shock I began to search for you. It is not
so easy to find one's way when a creature is so small, but fortunately
I spied you here in this shed and came to you at once."

Cap'n Bill and Trot were much astonished at this story and felt grieved
for the poor Ork, but the little man Pessim seemed to think it a good
joke. He began laughing when he heard the story and laughed until he
choked, after which he lay down on the ground and rolled and laughed
again, while the tears of merriment coursed down his wrinkled cheeks.

"Oh, dear! Oh, dear!" he finally gasped, sitting up and wiping his
eyes. "This is too rich! It's almost too joyful to be true."

"I don't see anything funny about it," remarked Trot indignantly.

"You would if you'd had my experience," said Pessim, getting upon his
feet and gradually resuming his solemn and dissatisfied expression of
countenance. "The same thing happened to me."

"Oh, did it?  And how did you happen to come to this island?" asked the
girl.

"I didn't come; the neighbors brought me," replied the little man, with
a frown at the recollection. "They said I was quarrelsome and
fault-finding and blamed me because I told them all the things that
went wrong, or never were right, and because I told them how things
ought to be. So they brought me here and left me all alone, saying that
if I quarreled with myself, no one else would be made unhappy. Absurd,
wasn't it?"

"Seems to me," said Cap'n Bill, "those neighbors did the proper thing."

"Well," resumed Pessim, "when I found myself King of this island I was
obliged to live upon fruits, and I found many fruits growing here that
I had never seen before. I tasted several and found them good and
wholesome. But one day I ate a lavender berry--as the Ork did--and
immediately I grew so small that I was scarcely two inches high. It was
a very unpleasant condition and like the Ork I became frightened. I
could not walk very well nor very far, for every lump of earth in my
way seemed a mountain, every blade of grass a tree and every grain of
sand a rocky boulder. For several days I stumbled around in an agony of
fear. Once a tree toad nearly gobbled me up, and if I ran out from the
shelter of the bushes the gulls and cormorants swooped down upon me.
Finally I decided to eat another berry and become nothing at all, since
life, to one as small as I was, had become a dreary nightmare.

"At last I found a small tree that I thought bore the same fruit as
that I had eaten. The berry was dark purple instead of light lavender,
but otherwise it was quite similar. Being unable to climb the tree, I
was obliged to wait underneath it until a sharp breeze arose and shook
the limbs so that a berry fell. Instantly I seized it and taking a last
view of the world--as I then thought--I ate the berry in a twinkling.
Then, to my surprise, I began to grow big again, until I became of my
former stature, and so I have since remained. Needless to say, I have
never eaten again of the lavender fruit, nor do any of the beasts or
birds that live upon this island eat it."

They had all three listened eagerly to this amazing tale, and when it
was finished the Ork exclaimed:

"Do you think, then, that the deep purple berry is the antidote for the
lavender one?"

"I'm sure of it," answered Pessim.

"Then lead me to the tree at once!" begged the Ork, "for this tiny form
I now have terrifies me greatly."

Pessim examined the Ork closely

"You are ugly enough as you are," said he. "Were you any larger you
might be dangerous."

"Oh, no," Trot assured him; "the Ork has been our good friend. Please
take us to the tree."

Then Pessim consented, although rather reluctantly. He led them to the
right, which was the east side of the island, and in a few minutes
brought them near to the edge of the grove which faced the shore of the
ocean. Here stood a small tree bearing berries of a deep purple color.
The fruit looked very enticing and Cap'n Bill reached up and selected
one that seemed especially plump and ripe.

The Ork had remained perched upon Trot's shoulder but now it flew down
to the ground. It was so difficult for Cap'n Bill to kneel down, with
his wooden leg, that the little girl took the berry from him and held
it close to the Ork's head.

"It's too big to go into my mouth," said the little creature, looking
at the fruit sidewise.

"You'll have to make sev'ral mouthfuls of it, I guess," said Trot; and
that is what the Ork did. He pecked at the soft, ripe fruit with his
bill and ate it up very quickly, because it was good.

Even before he had finished the berry they could see the Ork begin to
grow. In a few minutes he had regained his natural size and was
strutting before them, quite delighted with his transformation.

"Well, well! What do you think of me now?" he asked proudly.

"You are very skinny and remarkably ugly," declared Pessim.

"You are a poor judge of Orks," was the reply. "Anyone can see that I'm
much handsomer than those dreadful things called birds, which are all
fluff and feathers."

"Their feathers make soft beds," asserted Pessim. "And my skin would
make excellent drumheads," retorted the Ork. "Nevertheless, a plucked
bird or a skinned Ork would be of no value to himself, so we needn't
brag of our usefulness after we are dead. But for the sake of argument,
friend Pessim, I'd like to know what good you would be, were you not
alive?"

"Never mind that," said Cap'n Bill. "He isn't much good as he is."

"I am King of this Island, allow me to say, and you're intruding on my
property," declared the little man, scowling upon them. "If you don't
like me--and I'm sure you don't, for no one else does--why don't you go
away and leave me to myself?"

"Well, the Ork can fly, but we can't," explained Trot, in answer. "We
don't want to stay here a bit, but I don't see how we can get away."

"You can go back into the hole you came from."

Cap'n Bill shook his head; Trot shuddered at the thought; the Ork
laughed aloud.

"You may be King here," the creature said to Pessim, "but we intend to
run this island to suit ourselves, for we are three and you are one,
and the balance of power lies with us."

The little man made no reply to this, although as they walked back to
the shed his face wore its fiercest scowl. Cap'n Bill gathered a lot of
leaves and, assisted by Trot, prepared two nice beds in opposite
corners of the shed. Pessim slept in a hammock which he swung between
two trees.

They required no dishes, as all their food consisted of fruits and nuts
picked from the trees; they made no fire, for the weather was warm and
there was nothing to cook; the shed had no furniture other than the
rude stool which the little man was accustomed to sit upon. He called
it his "throne" and they let him keep it.

So they lived upon the island for three days, and rested and ate to
their hearts' content. Still, they were not at all happy in this life
because of Pessim. He continually found fault with them, and all that
they did, and all their surroundings. He could see nothing good or
admirable in all the world and Trot soon came to understand why the
little man's former neighbors had brought him to this island and left
him there, all alone, so he could not annoy anyone. It was their
misfortune that they had been led to this place by their adventures,
for often they would have preferred the company of a wild beast to that
of Pessim.

On the fourth day a happy thought came to the Ork. They had all been
racking their brains for a possible way to leave the island, and
discussing this or that method, without finding a plan that was
practical. Cap'n Bill had said he could make a raft of the trees, big
enough to float them all, but he had no tools except those two
pocketknives and it was not possible to chop down tree with such small
blades.

"And s'pose we got afloat on the ocean," said Trot, "where would we
drift to, and how long would it take us to get there?"

Cap'n Bill was forced to admit he didn't know. The Ork could fly away
from the island any time it wished to, but the queer creature was loyal
to his new friends and refused to leave them in such a lonely, forsaken
place.

It was when Trot urged him to go, on this fourth morning, that the Ork
had his happy thought.

"I will go," said he, "if you two will agree to ride upon my back."

"We are too heavy; you might drop us," objected Cap'n Bill.

"Yes, you are rather heavy for a long journey," acknowledged the Ork,
"but you might eat of those lavender berries and become so small that I
could carry you with ease."

This quaint suggestion startled Trot and she looked gravely at the
speaker while she considered it, but Cap'n Bill gave a scornful snort
and asked:

"What would become of us afterward? We wouldn't be much good if we were
some two or three inches high. No, Mr. Ork, I'd rather stay here, as I
am, than be a hop-o'-my-thumb somewhere else."

"Why couldn't you take some of the dark purple berries along with you,
to eat after we had reached our destination?" inquired the Ork. "Then
you could grow big again whenever you pleased."

Trot clapped her hands with delight.

"That's it!" she exclaimed. "Let's do it, Cap'n Bill."

The old sailor did not like the idea at first, but he thought it over
carefully and the more he thought the better it seemed.

"How could you manage to carry us, if we were so small?" he asked.

"I could put you in a paper bag, and tie the bag around my neck."

"But we haven't a paper bag," objected Trot.

The Ork looked at her.

"There's your sunbonnet," it said presently, "which is hollow in the
middle and has two strings that you could tie around my neck."

Trot took off her sunbonnet and regarded it critically. Yes, it might
easily hold both her and Cap'n Bill, after they had eaten the lavender
berries and been reduced in size. She tied the strings around the Ork's
neck and the sunbonnet made a bag in which two tiny people might ride
without danger of falling out. So she said:

"I b'lieve we'll do it that way, Cap'n."

Cap'n Bill groaned but could make no logical objection except that the
plan seemed to him quite dangerous--and dangerous in more ways than one.

"I think so, myself," said Trot soberly. "But nobody can stay alive
without getting into danger sometimes, and danger doesn't mean getting
hurt, Cap'n; it only means we might get hurt. So I guess we'll have to
take the risk."

"Let's go and find the berries," said the Ork.

They said nothing to Pessim, who was sitting on his stool and scowling
dismally as he stared at the ocean, but started at once to seek the
trees that bore the magic fruits. The Ork remembered very well where
the lavender berries grew and led his companions quickly to the spot.

Cap'n Bill gathered two berries and placed them carefully in his
pocket. Then they went around to the east side of the island and found
the tree that bore the dark purple berries.

"I guess I'll take four of these," said the sailor-man, "so in case one
doesn't make us grow big we can eat another."

"Better take six," advised the Ork. "It's well to be on the safe side,
and I'm sure these trees grow nowhere else in all the world."

So Cap'n Bill gathered six of the purple berries and with their
precious fruit they returned to the shed to big good-bye to Pessim.
Perhaps they would not have granted the surly little man this courtesy
had they not wished to use him to tie the sunbonnet around the Ork's
neck.

When Pessim learned they were about to leave him he at first looked
greatly pleased, but he suddenly recollected that nothing ought to
please him and so began to grumble about being left alone.

"We knew it wouldn't suit you," remarked Cap'n Bill. "It didn't suit
you to have us here, and it won't suit you to have us go away."

"That is quite true," admitted Pessim. "I haven't been suited since I
can remember; so it doesn't matter to me in the least whether you go or
stay."

He was interested in their experiment, however, and willingly agreed to
assist, although he prophesied they would fall out of the sunbonnet on
their way and be either drowned in the ocean or crushed upon some rocky
shore. This uncheerful prospect did not daunt Trot, but it made Cap'n
Bill quite nervous.

"I will eat my berry first," said Trot, as she placed her sunbonnet on
the ground, in such manner that they could get into it.

Then she ate the lavender berry and in a few seconds became so small
that Cap'n Bill picked her up gently with his thumb and one finger and
placed her in the middle of the sunbonnet. Then he placed beside her
the six purple berries--each one being about as big as the tiny Trot's
head--and all preparations being now made the old sailor ate his
lavender berry and became very small--wooden leg and all!

Cap'n Bill stumbled sadly in trying to climb over the edge of the
sunbonnet and pitched in beside Trot headfirst, which caused the
unhappy Pessim to laugh with glee. Then the King of the Island picked
up the sunbonnet--so rudely that he shook its occupants like peas in a
pod--and tied it, by means of its strings, securely around the Ork's
neck.

"I hope, Trot, you sewed those strings on tight," said Cap'n Bill
anxiously.

"Why, we are not very heavy, you know," she replied, "so I think the
stitches will hold. But be careful and not crush the berries, Cap'n."

"One is jammed already," he said, looking at them.

"All ready?" asked the Ork.

"Yes!" they cried together, and Pessim came close to the sunbonnet and
called out to them: "You'll be smashed or drowned, I'm sure you will!
But farewell, and good riddance to you."

The Ork was provoked by this unkind speech, so he turned his tail
toward the little man and made it revolve so fast that the rush of air
tumbled Pessim over backward and he rolled several times upon the
ground before he could stop himself and sit up. By that time the Ork
was high in the air and speeding swiftly over the ocean.




Chapter Six

The Flight of the Midgets


Cap'n Bill and Trot rode very comfortably in the sunbonnet.  The motion
was quite steady, for they weighed so little that the Ork flew without
effort. Yet they were both somewhat nervous about their future fate and
could not help wishing they were safe on land and their natural size
again.

"You're terr'ble small, Trot," remarked Cap'n Bill, looking at his
companion.

"Same to you, Cap'n," she said with a laugh; "but as long as we have
the purple berries we needn't worry about our size."

"In a circus," mused the old man, "we'd be curiosities. But in a
sunbonnet--high up in the air--sailin' over a big, unknown ocean--they
ain't no word in any booktionary to describe us."

"Why, we're midgets, that's all," said the little girl. The Ork flew
silently for a long time. The slight swaying of the sunbonnet made
Cap'n Bill drowsy, and he began to doze. Trot, however, was wide awake,
and after enduring the monotonous journey as long as she was able she
called out:

"Don't you see land anywhere, Mr. Ork?"

"Not yet," he answered. "This is a big ocean and I've no idea in which
direction the nearest land to that island lies; but if I keep flying in
a straight line I'm sure to reach some place some time."

That seemed reasonable, so the little people in the sunbonnet remained
as patient as possible; that is, Cap'n Bill dozed and Trot tried to
remember her geography lessons so she could figure out what land they
were likely to arrive at.

For hours and hours the Ork flew steadily, keeping to the straight line
and searching with his eyes the horizon of the ocean for land. Cap'n
Bill was fast asleep and snoring and Trot had laid her head on his
shoulder to rest it when suddenly the Ork exclaimed:

"There! I've caught a glimpse of land, at last."

At this announcement they roused themselves. Cap'n Bill stood up and
tried to peek over the edge of the sunbonnet.

"What does it look like?" he inquired.

"Looks like another island," said the Ork; "but I can judge it better
in a minute or two."

"I don't care much for islands, since we visited that other one,"
declared Trot.

Soon the Ork made another announcement.

"It is surely an island, and a little one, too," said he. "But I won't
stop, because I see a much bigger land straight ahead of it."

"That's right," approved Cap'n Bill. "The bigger the land, the better
it will suit us."

"It's almost a continent," continued the Ork after a brief silence,
during which he did not decrease the speed of his flight. "I wonder if
it can be Orkland, the place I have been seeking so long?"

"I hope not," whispered Trot to Cap'n Bill--so softly that the Ork
could not hear her--"for I shouldn't like to be in a country where only
Orks live. This one Ork isn't a bad companion, but a lot of him
wouldn't be much fun."

After a few more minutes of flying the Ork called out in a sad voice:

"No! this is not my country. It's a place I have never seen before,
although I have wandered far and wide. It seems to be all mountains and
deserts and green valleys and queer cities and lakes and rivers--mixed
up in a very puzzling way."

"Most countries are like that," commented Cap'n Bill. "Are you going to
land?"

"Pretty soon," was the reply. "There is a mountain peak just ahead of
me. What do you say to our landing on that?"

"All right," agreed the sailor-man, for both he and Trot were getting
tired of riding in the sunbonnet and longed to set foot on solid ground
again.

So in a few minutes the Ork slowed down his speed and then came to a
stop so easily that they were scarcely jarred at all. Then the creature
squatted down until the sunbonnet rested on the ground, and began
trying to unfasten with its claws the knotted strings.

This proved a very clumsy task, because the strings were tied at the
back of the Ork's neck, just where his claws would not easily reach.
After much fumbling he said:

"I'm afraid I can't let you out, and there is no one near to help me."

This was at first discouraging, but after a little thought Cap'n Bill
said:

"If you don't mind, Trot, I can cut a slit in your sunbonnet with my
knife."

"Do," she replied. "The slit won't matter, 'cause I can sew it up again
afterward, when I am big."

So Cap'n Bill got out his knife, which was just as small, in
proportion, as he was, and after considerable trouble managed to cut a
long slit in the sunbonnet. First he squeezed through the opening
himself and then helped Trot to get out.

When they stood on firm ground again their first act was to begin
eating the dark purple berries which they had brought with them. Two of
these Trot had guarded carefully during the long journey, by holding
them in her lap, for their safety meant much to the tiny people.

"I'm not very hungry," said the little girl as she handed a berry to
Cap'n Bill, "but hunger doesn't count, in this case. It's like taking
medicine to make you well, so we must manage to eat 'em, somehow or
other."

But the berries proved quite pleasant to taste and as Cap'n Bill and
Trot nibbled at their edges their forms began to grow in size--slowly
but steadily. The bigger they grew the easier it was for them to eat
the berries, which of course became smaller to them, and by the time
the fruit was eaten our friends had regained their natural size.

The little girl was greatly relieved when she found herself as large as
she had ever been, and Cap'n Bill shared her satisfaction; for,
although they had seen the effect of the berries on the Ork, they had
not been sure the magic fruit would have the same effect on human
beings, or that the magic would work in any other country than that in
which the berries grew.

"What shall we do with the other four berries?" asked Trot, as she
picked up her sunbonnet, marveling that she had ever been small enough
to ride in it. "They're no good to us now, are they, Cap'n?"

"I'm not sure as to that," he replied. "If they were eaten by one who
had never eaten the lavender berries, they might have no effect at all;
but then, contrarywise, they might. One of 'em has got badly jammed, so
I'll throw it away, but the other three I b'lieve I'll carry with me.
They're magic things, you know, and may come handy to us some time."

He now searched in his big pockets and drew out a small wooden box with
a sliding cover.  The sailor had kept an assortment of nails, of
various sizes, in this box, but those he now dumped loosely into his
pocket and in the box placed the three sound purple berries.

When this important matter was attended to they found time to look
about them and see what sort of place the Ork had landed them in.




Chapter Seven

The Bumpy Man


The mountain on which they had alighted was not a barren waste, but had
on its sides patches of green grass, some bushes, a few slender trees
and here and there masses of tumbled rocks. The sides of the slope
seemed rather steep, but with care one could climb up or down them with
ease and safety. The view from where they now stood showed pleasant
valleys and fertile hills lying below the heights. Trot thought she saw
some houses of queer shapes scattered about the lower landscape, and
there were moving dots that might be people or animals, yet were too
far away for her to see them clearly.

Not far from the place where they stood was the top of the mountain,
which seemed to be flat, so the Ork proposed to his companions that he
would fly up and see what was there.

"That's a good idea," said Trot, "'cause it's getting toward evening
and we'll have to find a place to sleep."

The Ork had not been gone more than a few minutes when they saw him
appear on the edge of the top which was nearest them.

"Come on up!" he called.

So Trot and Cap'n Bill began to ascend the steep slope and it did not
take them long to reach the place where the Ork awaited them.

Their first view of the mountain top pleased them very much. It was a
level space of wider extent than they had guessed and upon it grew
grass of a brilliant green color. In the very center stood a house
built of stone and very neatly constructed. No one was in sight, but
smoke was coming from the chimney, so with one accord all three began
walking toward the house.

"I wonder," said Trot, "in what country we are, and if it's very far
from my home in California."

"Can't say as to that, partner," answered Cap'n Bill, "but I'm mighty
certain we've come a long way since we struck that whirlpool."

"Yes," she agreed, with a sigh, "it must be miles and miles!"

"Distance means nothing," said the Ork. "I have flown pretty much all
over the world, trying to find my home, and it is astonishing how many
little countries there are, hidden away in the cracks and corners of
this big globe of Earth. If one travels, he may find some new country
at every turn, and a good many of them have never yet been put upon the
maps."

"P'raps this is one of them," suggested Trot.

They reached the house after a brisk walk and Cap'n Bill knocked upon
the door. It was at once opened by a rugged looking man who had "bumps
all over him," as Trot afterward declared. There were bumps on his
head, bumps on his body and bumps on his arms and legs and hands. Even
his fingers had bumps on the ends of them. For dress he wore an old
gray suit of fantastic design, which fitted him very badly because of
the bumps it covered but could not conceal.

But the Bumpy Man's eyes were kind and twinkling in expression and as
soon as he saw his visitors he bowed low and said in a rather bumpy
voice:

"Happy day!  Come in and shut the door, for it grows cool when the sun
goes down. Winter is now upon us."

"Why, it isn't cold a bit, outside," said Trot, "so it can't be winter
yet."

"You will change your mind about that in a little while," declared the
Bumpy Man. "My bumps always tell me the state of the weather, and they
feel just now as if a snowstorm was coming this way. But make
yourselves at home, strangers. Supper is nearly ready and there is food
enough for all."

Inside the house there was but one large room, simply but comfortably
furnished. It had benches, a table and a fireplace, all made of stone.
On the hearth a pot was bubbling and steaming, and Trot thought it had
a rather nice smell. The visitors seated themselves upon the
benches--except the Ork. which squatted by the fireplace--and the Bumpy
Man began stirring the kettle briskly.

"May I ask what country this is, sir?" inquired Cap'n Bill.

"Goodness me--fruit-cake and apple-sauce!--don't you know where you
are?" asked the Bumpy Man, as he stopped stirring and looked at the
speaker in surprise.

"No," admitted Cap'n Bill. "We've just arrived."

"Lost your way?" questioned the Bumpy Man.

"Not exactly," said Cap'n Bill. "We didn't have any way to lose."

"Ah!" said the Bumpy Man, nodding his bumpy head. "This," he announced,
in a solemn, impressive voice, "is the famous Land of Mo."

"Oh!" exclaimed the sailor and the girl, both in one breath. But, never
having heard of the Land of Mo, they were no wiser than before.

"I thought that would startle you," remarked the Bumpy Man, well
pleased, as he resumed his stirring. The Ork watched him a while in
silence and then asked:

"Who may you be?"

"Me?" answered the Bumpy Man. "Haven't you heard of me? Gingerbread and
lemon-juice! I'm known, far and wide, as the Mountain Ear."

They all received this information in silence at first, for they were
trying to think what he could mean. Finally Trot mustered up courage to
ask:

"What is a Mountain Ear, please?"

For answer the man turned around and faced them, waving the spoon with
which he had been stirring the kettle, as he recited the following
verses in a singsong tone of voice:

  "Here's a mountain, hard of hearing,
  That's sad-hearted and needs cheering,
  So my duty is to listen to all sounds that Nature makes,
  So the hill won't get uneasy--
  Get to coughing, or get sneezy--
  For this monster bump, when frightened, is quite liable to quakes.

  "You can hear a bell that's ringing;
  I can feel some people's singing;
  But a mountain isn't sensible of what goes on, and so
  When I hear a blizzard blowing
  Or it's raining hard, or snowing,
  I tell it to the mountain and the mountain seems to know.

  "Thus I benefit all people
  While I'm living on this steeple,
  For I keep the mountain steady so my neighbors all may thrive.
  With my list'ning and my shouting
  I prevent this mount from spouting,
  And that makes me so important that I'm glad that I'm alive."


When he had finished these lines of verse the Bumpy Man turned again to
resume his stirring. The Ork laughed softly and Cap'n Bill whistled to
himself and Trot made up her mind that the Mountain Ear must be a
little crazy. But the Bumpy Man seemed satisfied that he had explained
his position fully and presently he placed four stone plates upon the
table and then lifted the kettle from the fire and poured some of its
contents on each of the plates. Cap'n Bill and Trot at once approached
the table, for they were hungry, but when she examined her plate the
little girl exclaimed:

"Why, it's molasses candy!"

"To be sure," returned the Bumpy Man, with a pleasant smile. "Eat it
quick, while it's hot, for it cools very quickly this winter weather."

With this he seized a stone spoon and began putting the hot molasses
candy into his mouth, while the others watched him in astonishment.

"Doesn't it burn you?" asked the girl.

"No indeed," said he. "Why don't you eat? Aren't you hungry?"

"Yes," she replied, "I am hungry. But we usually eat our candy when it
is cold and hard. We always pull molasses candy before we eat it."

"Ha, ha, ha!" laughed the Mountain Ear. "What a funny idea! Where in
the world did you come from?"

"California," she said.

"California! Pooh! there isn't any such place. I've heard of every
place in the Land of Mo, but I never before heard of California."

"It isn't in the Land of Mo," she explained.

"Then it isn't worth talking about," declared the Bumpy Man, helping
himself again from the steaming kettle, for he had been eating all the
time he talked.

"For my part," sighed Cap'n Bill, "I'd like a decent square meal, once
more, just by way of variety. In the last place there was nothing but
fruit to eat, and here it's worse, for there's nothing but candy."

"Molasses candy isn't so bad," said Trot. "Mine's nearly cool enough to
pull, already. Wait a bit, Cap'n, and you can eat it."

A little later she was able to gather the candy from the stone plate
and begin to work it back and forth with her hands. The Mountain Ear
was greatly amazed at this and watched her closely. It was really good
candy and pulled beautifully, so that Trot was soon ready to cut it
into chunks for eating.

Cap'n Bill condescended to eat one or two pieces and the Ork ate
several, but the Bumpy Man refused to try it. Trot finished the plate
of candy herself and then asked for a drink of water.

"Water?" said the Mountain Ear wonderingly. "What is that?"

"Something to drink. Don't you have water in Mo?"

"None that ever I heard of," said he. "But I can give you some fresh
lemonade. I caught it in a jar the last time it rained, which was only
day before yesterday."

"Oh, does it rain lemonade here?" she inquired.

"Always; and it is very refreshing and healthful."

With this he brought from a cupboard a stone jar and a dipper, and the
girl found it very nice lemonade, indeed. Cap'n Bill liked it, too; but
the Ork would not touch it.

"If there is no water in this country, I cannot stay here for long,"
the creature declared. "Water means life to man and beast and bird."

"There must be water in lemonade," said Trot.

"Yes," answered the Ork, "I suppose so; but there are other things in
it, too, and they spoil the good water."

The day's adventures had made our wanderers tired, so the Bumpy Man
brought them some blankets in which they rolled themselves and then lay
down before the fire, which their host kept alive with fuel all through
the night. Trot wakened several times and found the Mountain Ear always
alert and listening intently for the slightest sound. But the little
girl could hear no sound at all except the snores of Cap'n Bill.




Chapter Eight

Button-Bright is Lost and Found Again


"Wake up--wake up!" called the voice of the Bumpy Man. "Didn't I tell
you winter was coming? I could hear it coming with my left ear, and the
proof is that it is now snowing hard outside."

"Is it?" said Trot, rubbing her eyes and creeping out of her blanket.
"Where I live, in California, I have never seen snow, except far away
on the tops of high mountains."

"Well, this is the top of a high mountain," returned the bumpy one,
"and for that reason we get our heaviest snowfalls right here."

The little girl went to  the window and looked out. The air was filled
with falling white flakes, so large in size and so queer in form that
she was puzzled.

"Are you certain this is snow?" she asked.

"To be sure. I must get my snow-shovel and turn out to shovel a path.
Would you like to come with me?"

"Yes," she said, and followed the Bumpy Man out when he opened the
door. Then she exclaimed: "Why, it isn't cold a bit!"

"Of course not," replied the man. "It was cold last night, before the
snowstorm; but snow, when it falls, is always crisp and warm."

Trot gathered a handful of it.

"Why, it's popcorn?" she cried.

"Certainly; all snow is popcorn. What did you expect it to be?"

"Popcorn is not snow in my country."

"Well, it is the only snow we have in the Land of Mo, so you may as
well make the best of it," said he, a little impatiently. "I'm not
responsible for the absurd things that happen in your country, and when
you're in Mo you must do as the Momen do. Eat some of our snow, and you
will find it is good. The only fault I find with our snow is that we
get too much of it at times."

With this the Bumpy Man set to work shoveling a path and he was so
quick and industrious that he piled up the popcorn in great banks on
either side of the trail that led to the mountain-top from the plains
below. While he worked, Trot ate popcorn and found it crisp and
slightly warm, as well as nicely salted and buttered. Presently Cap'n
Bill came out of the house and joined her.

"What's this?" he asked.

"Mo snow," said she. "But it isn't real snow, although it falls from
the sky. It's popcorn."

Cap'n Bill tasted it; then he sat down in the path and began to eat.
The Ork came out and pecked away with its bill as fast as it could.
They all liked popcorn and they all were hungry this morning.

Meantime the flakes of "Mo snow" came down so fast that the number of
them almost darkened the air. The Bumpy Man was now shoveling quite a
distance down the mountain-side, while the path behind him rapidly
filled up with fresh-fallen popcorn. Suddenly Trot heard him call out:

"Goodness gracious--mince pie and pancakes!--here is some one buried in
the snow."

She ran toward him at once and the others followed, wading through the
corn and crunching it underneath their feet. The Mo snow was pretty
deep where the Bumpy Man was shoveling and from beneath a great bank of
it he had uncovered a pair of feet.

"Dear me!  Someone has been lost in the storm," said Cap'n Bill. "I
hope he is still alive. Let's pull him out and see."

He took hold of one foot and the Bumpy Man took hold of the other. Then
they both pulled and out from the heap of popcorn came a little boy. He
was dressed in a brown velvet jacket and knickerbockers, with brown
stockings, buckled shoes and a blue shirt-waist that had frills down
its front. When drawn from the heap the boy was chewing a mouthful of
popcorn and both his hands were full of it. So at first he couldn't
speak to his rescuers but lay quite still and eyed them calmly until he
had swallowed his mouthful. Then he said:

"Get my cap," and stuffed more popcorn into his mouth.

While the Bumpy Man began shoveling into the corn-bank to find the
boy's cap, Trot was laughing joyfully and Cap'n Bill had a broad grin
on his face. The Ork looked from one to another and asked:

"Who is this stranger?"

"Why, it's Button-Bright, of course," answered Trot. "If anyone ever
finds a lost boy, he can make up his mind it's Button-Bright. But how
he ever came to be lost in this far-away country is more'n I can make
out."

"Where does he belong?" inquired the Ork.

"His home used to be in Philadelphia, I think; but I'm quite sure
Button-Bright doesn't belong anywhere."

"That's right," said the boy, nodding his head as he swallowed the
second mouthful.

"Everyone belongs somewhere," remarked the Ork.

"Not me," insisted Button-Bright. "I'm half way round the world from
Philadelphia, and I've lost my Magic Umbrella, that used to carry me
anywhere. Stands to reason that if I can't get back I haven't any home.
But I don't care much. This is a pretty good country, Trot. I've had
lots of fun here."

By this time the Mountain Ear had secured the boy's cap and was
listening to the conversation with much interest.

"It seems you know this poor, snow-covered cast-away," he said.

"Yes, indeed," answered Trot.  "We made a journey together to Sky
Island, once, and were good friends."

"Well, then I'm glad I saved his life," said the Bumpy Man.

"Much obliged, Mr. Knobs," said Button-Bright, sitting up and staring
at him, "but I don't believe you've saved anything except some popcorn
that I might have eaten had you not disturbed me. It was nice and warm
in that bank of popcorn, and there was plenty to eat. What made you dig
me out? And what makes you so bumpy everywhere?"

"As for the bumps," replied the man, looking at himself with much
pride, "I was born with them and I suspect they were a gift from the
fairies. They make me look rugged and big, like the mountain I serve."

"All right," said Button-Bright and began eating popcorn again.

It had stopped snowing, now, and great flocks of birds were gathering
around the mountain-side, eating the popcorn with much eagerness and
scarcely noticing the people at all. There were birds of every size and
color, most of them having gorgeous feathers and plumes.

"Just look at them!" exclaimed the Ork scornfully. "Aren't they
dreadful creatures, all covered with feathers?"

"I think they're beautiful," said Trot, and this made the Ork so
indignant that he went back into the house and sulked.

Button-Bright reached out his hand and caught a big bird by the leg. At
once it rose into the air and it was so strong that it nearly carried
the little boy with it. He let go the leg in a hurry and the bird flew
down again and began to eat of the popcorn, not being frightened in the
least.

This gave Cap'n Bill an idea. He felt in his pocket and drew out
several pieces of stout string. Moving very quietly, so as to not alarm
the birds, he crept up to several of the biggest ones and tied cords
around their legs, thus making them prisoners.  The birds were so
intent on their eating that they did not notice what had happened to
them, and when about twenty had been captured in this manner Cap'n Bill
tied the ends of all the strings together and fastened them to a huge
stone, so they could not escape.

The Bumpy Man watched the old sailor's actions with much curiosity.

"The birds will be quiet until they've eaten up all the snow," he said,
"but then they will want to fly away to their homes. Tell me, sir, what
will the poor things do when they find they can't fly?"

"It may worry 'em a little," replied Cap'n Bill, "but they're not going
to be hurt if they take it easy and behave themselves."

Our friends had all made a good breakfast of the delicious popcorn and
now they walked toward the house again. Button-Bright walked beside
Trot and held her hand in his, because they were old friends and he
liked the little girl very much. The boy was not so old as Trot, and
small as she was he was half a head shorter in height. The most
remarkable thing about Button-Bright was that he was always quiet and
composed, whatever happened, and nothing was ever able to astonish him.
Trot liked him because he was not rude and never tried to plague her.
Cap'n Bill liked him because he had found the boy cheerful and brave at
all times, and willing to do anything he was asked to do.

When they came to the house Trot sniffed the air and asked "Don't I
smell perfume?"

"I think you do," said the Bumpy Man. "You smell violets, and that
proves there is a breeze springing up from the south. All our winds and
breezes are perfumed and for that reason we are glad to have them blow
in our direction. The south breeze always has a violet odor; the north
breeze has the fragrance of wild roses; the east breeze is perfumed
with lilies-of-the-valley and the west wind with lilac blossoms. So we
need no weathervane to tell us which way the wind is blowing. We have
only to smell the perfume and it informs us at once."

Inside the house they found the Ork, and Button-Bright regarded the
strange, birdlike creature with curious interest. After examining it
closely for a time he asked:

"Which way does your tail whirl?"

"Either way," said the Ork.

Button-Bright put out his hand and tried to spin it.

"Don't do that!" exclaimed the Ork.

"Why not?" inquired the boy.

"Because it happens to be my tail, and I reserve the right to whirl it
myself," explained the Ork.

"Let's go out and fly somewhere," proposed Button-Bright. "I want to
see how the tail works."

"Not now," said the Ork. "I appreciate your interest in me, which I
fully deserve; but I only fly when I am going somewhere, and if I got
started I might not stop."

"That reminds me," remarked Cap'n Bill, "to ask you, friend Ork, how we
are going to get away from here?"

"Get away!" exclaimed the Bumpy Man. "Why don't you stay here? You
won't find any nicer place than Mo."

"Have you been anywhere else, sir?"

"No; I can't say that I have," admitted the Mountain Ear.

"Then permit me to say you're no judge," declared Cap'n Bill. "But you
haven't answered my question, friend Ork. How are we to get away from
this mountain?"

The Ork reflected a while before he answered.

"I might carry one of you--the boy or the girl--upon my back," said he,
"but three big people are more than I can manage, although I have
carried two of you for a short distance. You ought not to have eaten
those purple berries so soon."

"P'r'aps we did make a mistake," Cap'n Bill acknowledged.

"Or we might have brought some of those lavender berries with us,
instead of so many purple ones," suggested Trot regretfully.

Cap'n Bill made no reply to this statement, which showed he did not
fully agree with the little girl; but he fell into deep thought, with
wrinkled brows, and finally he said:

"If those purple berries would make anything grow bigger, whether it'd
eaten the lavender ones or not, I could find a way out of our troubles."

They did not understand this speech and looked at the old sailor as if
expecting him to explain what he meant. But just then a chorus of
shrill cries rose from outside.

"Here! Let me go--let me go!" the voices seemed to say. "Why are we
insulted in this way? Mountain Ear, come and help us!"

Trot ran to the window and looked out.

"It's the birds you caught, Cap'n," she said. "I didn't know they could
talk."

"Oh, yes; all the birds in Mo are educated to talk," said the Bumpy
Man. Then he looked at Cap'n Bill uneasily and added: "Won't you let
the poor things go?"

"I'll see," replied the sailor, and walked out to where the birds were
fluttering and complaining because the strings would not allow them to
fly away.

"Listen to me!" he cried, and at once they became still. "We three
people who are strangers in your land want to go to some other country,
and we want three of you birds to carry us there. We know we are asking
a great favor, but it's the only way we can think of--excep' walkin',
an' I'm not much good at that because I've a wooden leg. Besides, Trot
an' Button-Bright are too small to undertake a long and tiresome
journey. Now, tell me: Which three of you birds will consent to carry
us?"

The birds looked at one another as if greatly astonished. Then one of
them replied: "You must be crazy, old man. Not one of us is big enough
to fly with even the smallest of your party."

"I'll fix the matter of size," promised Cap'n Bill. "If three of you
will agree to carry us, I'll make you big an' strong enough to do it,
so it won't worry you a bit."

The birds considered this gravely.  Living in a magic country, they had
no doubt but that the strange one-legged man could do what he said.
After a little, one of them asked:

"If you make us big, would we stay big always?"

"I think so," replied Cap'n Bill.

They chattered a while among themselves and then the bird that had
first spoken said: "I'll go, for one."

"So will I," said another; and after a pause a third said: "I'll go,
too."

Perhaps more would have volunteered, for it seemed that for some reason
they all longed to be bigger than they were; but three were enough for
Cap'n Bill's purpose and so he promptly released all the others, who
immediately flew away.

The three that remained were cousins, and all were of the same
brilliant plumage and in size about as large as eagles. When Trot
questioned them she found they were quite young, having only abandoned
their nests a few weeks before. They were strong young birds, with
clear, brave eyes, and the little girl decided they were the most
beautiful of all the feathered creatures she had ever seen.

Cap'n Bill now took from his pocket the wooden box with the sliding
cover and removed the three purple berries, which were still in good
condition.

"Eat these," he said, and gave one to each of the birds. They obeyed,
finding the fruit very pleasant to taste. In a few seconds they began
to grow in size and grew so fast that Trot feared they would never
stop. But they finally did stop growing, and then they were much larger
than the Ork, and nearly the size of full-grown ostriches.

Cap'n Bill was much pleased by this result.

"You can carry us now, all right," said he.

The birds strutted around with pride, highly pleased with their immense
size.

"I don't see, though," said Trot doubtfully, "how we're going to ride
on their backs without falling off."

"We're not going to ride on their backs," answered Cap'n Bill. "I'm
going to make swings for us to ride in."

He then asked the Bumpy Man for some rope, but the man had no rope. He
had, however, an old suit of gray clothes which he gladly presented to
Cap'n Bill, who cut the cloth into strips and twisted it so that it was
almost as strong as rope. With this material he attached to each bird a
swing that dangled below its feet, and Button-Bright made a trial
flight in one of them to prove that it was safe and comfortable. When
all this had been arranged one of the birds asked:

"Where do you wish us to take you?"

"Why, just follow the Ork," said Cap'n Bill. "He will be our leader,
and wherever the Ork flies you are to fly, and wherever the Ork lands
you are to land. Is that satisfactory?"

The birds declared it was quite satisfactory, so Cap'n Bill took
counsel with the Ork.

"On our way here," said that peculiar creature, "I noticed a broad,
sandy desert at the left of me, on which was no living thing."

"Then we'd better keep away from it," replied the sailor.

"Not so," insisted the Ork. "I have found, on my travels, that the most
pleasant countries often lie in the midst of deserts; so I think it
would be wise for us to fly over this desert and discover what lies
beyond it. For in the direction we came from lies the ocean, as we well
know, and beyond here is this strange Land of Mo, which we do not care
to explore. On one side, as we can see from this mountain, is a broad
expanse of plain, and on the other the desert.  For my part, I vote for
the desert."

"What do you say, Trot?" inquired Cap'n Bill.

"It's all the same to me," she replied.

No one thought of asking Button-Bright's opinion, so it was decided to
fly over the desert. They bade good-bye to the Bumpy Man and thanked
him for his kindness and hospitality. Then they seated themselves in
the swings--one for each bird--and told the Ork to start away and they
would follow.

The whirl of the Ork's tail astonished the birds at first, but after he
had gone a short distance they rose in the air, carrying their
passengers easily, and flew with strong, regular strokes of their great
wings in the wake of their leader.




Chapter Nine

The Kingdom of Jinxland


Trot rode with more comfort than she had expected, although the swing
swayed so much that she had to hold on tight with both hands. Cap'n
Bill's bird followed the Ork, and Trot came next, with Button-Bright
trailing behind her. It was quite an imposing procession, but
unfortunately there was no one to see it, for the Ork had headed
straight for the great sandy desert and in a few minutes after starting
they were flying high over the broad waste, where no living thing could
exist.

The little girl thought this would be a bad place for the birds to lose
strength, or for the cloth ropes to give way; but although she could
not help feeling a trifle nervous and fidgety she had confidence in the
huge and brilliantly plumaged bird that bore her, as well as in Cap'n
Bill's knowledge of how to twist and fasten a rope so it would hold.

That was a remarkably big desert. There was nothing to relieve the
monotony of view and every minute seemed an hour and every hour a day.
Disagreeable fumes and gases rose from the sands, which would have been
deadly to the travelers had they not been so high in the air. As it
was, Trot was beginning to feel sick, when a breath of fresher air
filled her nostrils and on looking ahead she saw a great cloud of
pink-tinted mist. Even while she wondered what it could be, the Ork
plunged boldly into the mist and the other birds followed. She could
see nothing for a time, nor could the bird which carried her see where
the Ork had gone, but it kept flying as sturdily as ever and in a few
moments the mist was passed and the girl saw a most beautiful landscape
spread out below her, extending as far as her eye could reach.

She saw bits of forest, verdure clothed hills, fields of waving grain,
fountains, rivers and lakes; and throughout the scene were scattered
groups of pretty houses and a few grand castles and palaces.

Over all this delightful landscape--which from Trot's high perch seemed
like a magnificent painted picture--was a rosy glow such as we
sometimes see in the west at sunset. In this case, however, it was not
in the west only, but everywhere.

No wonder the Ork paused to circle slowly over this lovely country. The
other birds followed his action, all eyeing the place with equal
delight. Then, as with one accord, the four formed a group and slowly
sailed downward. This brought them to that part of the newly-discovered
land which bordered on the desert's edge; but it was just as pretty
here as anywhere, so the Ork and the birds alighted and the three
passengers at once got out of their swings.

"Oh, Cap'n Bill, isn't this fine an' dandy?" exclaimed Trot
rapturously. "How lucky we were to discover this beautiful country!"

"The country seems rather high class, I'll admit, Trot," replied the
old sailor-man, looking around him, "but we don't know, as yet, what
its people are like."

"No one could live in such a country without being happy and good--I'm
sure of that," she said earnestly. "Don't you think so, Button-Bright?"

"I'm not thinking, just now," answered the little boy. "It tires me to
think, and I never seem to gain anything by it. When we see the people
who live here we will know what they are like, and no 'mount of
thinking will make them any different."

"That's true enough," said the Ork. "But now I want to make a proposal.
While you are getting acquainted with this new country, which looks as
if it contains everything to make one happy, I would like to fly
along--all by myself--and see if I can find my home on the other side
of the great desert. If I do, I will stay there, of course. But if I
fail to find Orkland I will return to you in a week, to see if I can do
anything more to assist you."

They were sorry to lose their queer companion, but could offer no
objection to the plan; so the Ork bade them good-bye and rising swiftly
in the air, he flew over the country and was soon lost to view in the
distance.

The three birds which had carried our friends now begged permission to
return by the way they had come, to their own homes, saying they were
anxious to show their families how big they had become. So Cap'n Bill
and Trot and Button-Bright all thanked them gratefully for their
assistance and soon the birds began their long flight toward the Land
of Mo. Being now left to themselves in this strange land, the three
comrades selected a pretty pathway and began walking along it. They
believed this path would lead them to a splendid castle which they
espied in the distance, the turrets of which towered far above the tops
of the trees which surrounded it. It did not seem very far away, so
they sauntered on slowly, admiring the beautiful ferns and flowers that
lined the pathway and listening to the singing of the birds and the
soft chirping of the grasshoppers.

Presently the path wound over a little hill. In a valley that lay
beyond the hill was a tiny cottage surrounded by flower beds and fruit
trees. On the shady porch of the cottage they saw, as they approached,
a pleasant faced woman sitting amidst a group of children, to whom she
was telling stories. The children quickly discovered the strangers and
ran toward them with exclamations of astonishment, so that Trot and her
friends became the center of a curious group, all chattering excitedly.
Cap'n Bill's wooden leg seemed to arouse the wonder of the children, as
they could not understand why he had not two meat legs. This attention
seemed to please the old sailor, who patted the heads of the children
kindly and then, raising his hat to the woman, he inquired:

"Can you tell us, madam, just what country this is?"

She stared hard at all three of the strangers as she replied briefly:
"Jinxland."

"Oh!" exclaimed Cap'n Bill, with a puzzled look. "And where is
Jinxland, please?"

"In the Quadling Country," said she.

"What!" cried Trot, in sudden excitement. "Do you mean to say this is
the Quadling Country of the Land of Oz?"

"To be sure I do," the woman answered. "Every bit of land that is
surrounded by the great desert is the Land of Oz, as you ought to know
as well as I do; but I'm sorry to say that Jinxland is separated from
the rest of the Quadling Country by that row of high mountains you see
yonder, which have such steep sides that no one can cross them. So we
live here all by ourselves, and are ruled by our own King, instead of
by Ozma of Oz."

"I've been to the Land of Oz before," said Button-Bright, "but I've
never been here."

"Did you ever hear of Jinxland before?" asked Trot.

"No," said Button-Bright.

"It is on the Map of Oz, though," asserted the woman, "and it's a fine
country, I assure you. If only," she added, and then paused to look
around her with a frightened expression. "If only--" here she stopped
again, as if not daring to go on with her speech.

"If only what, ma'am?" asked Cap'n Bill.

The woman sent the children into the house. Then she came closer to the
strangers and whispered: "If only we had a different King, we would be
very happy and contented."

"What's the matter with your King?" asked Trot, curiously. But the
woman seemed frightened to have said so much. She retreated to her
porch, merely saying:

"The King punishes severely any treason on the part of his subjects."

"What's treason?" asked Button-Bright.

"In this case," replied Cap'n Bill, "treason seems to consist of
knockin' the King; but I guess we know his disposition now as well as
if the lady had said more."

"I wonder," said Trot, going up to the woman, "if you could spare us
something to eat. We haven't had anything but popcorn and lemonade for
a long time."

"Bless your heart! Of course I can spare you some food," the woman
answered, and entering her cottage she soon returned with a tray loaded
with sandwiches, cakes and cheese. One of the children drew a bucket of
clear, cold water from a spring and the three wanderers ate heartily
and enjoyed the good things immensely.

When Button-Bright could eat no more he filled the pockets of his
jacket with cakes and cheese, and not even the children objected to
this. Indeed they all seemed pleased to see the strangers eat, so Cap'n
Bill decided that no matter what the King of Jinxland was like, the
people would prove friendly and hospitable.

"Whose castle is that, yonder, ma'am?" he asked, waving his hand toward
the towers that rose above the trees.

"It belongs to his Majesty, King Krewl." she said.

"Oh, indeed; and does he live there?"

"When he is not out hunting with his fierce courtiers and war
captains," she replied.

"Is he hunting now?" Trot inquired.

"I do not know, my dear. The less we know about the King's actions the
safer we are."

It was evident the woman did not like to talk about King Krewl and so,
having finished their meal, they said good-bye and continued along the
pathway.

"Don't you think we'd better keep away from that King's castle, Cap'n?"
asked Trot.

"Well," said he, "King Krewl would find out, sooner or later, that we
are in his country, so we may as well face the music now. Perhaps he
isn't quite so bad as that woman thinks he is. Kings aren't always
popular with their people, you know, even if they do the best they know
how."

"Ozma is pop'lar," said Button-Bright.

"Ozma is diff'rent from any other Ruler, from all I've heard," remarked
Trot musingly, as she walked beside the boy. "And, after all, we are
really in the Land of Oz, where Ozma rules ev'ry King and ev'rybody
else. I never heard of anybody getting hurt in her dominions, did you,
Button-Bright?"

"Not when she knows about it," he replied. "But those birds landed us
in just the wrong place, seems to me. They might have carried us right
on, over that row of mountains, to the Em'rald City."

"True enough," said Cap'n Bill; "but they didn't, an' so we must make
the best of Jinxland. Let's try not to be afraid."

"Oh, I'm not very scared," said Button-Bright, pausing to look at a
pink rabbit that popped its head out of a hole in the field near by.

"Nor am I," added Trot. "Really, Cap'n, I'm so glad to be anywhere at
all in the wonderful fairyland of Oz that I think I'm the luckiest girl
in all the world. Dorothy lives in the Em'rald City, you know, and so
does the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman and Tik-Tok and the Shaggy
Man--and all the rest of 'em that we've heard so much about--not to
mention Ozma, who must be the sweetest and loveliest girl in all the
world!"

"Take your time, Trot," advised Button-Bright. "You don't have to say
it all in one breath, you know. And you haven't mentioned half of the
curious people in the Em'rald City."

"That 'ere Em'rald City," said Cap'n Bill impressively, "happens to be
on the other side o' those mountains, that we're told no one is able to
cross. I don't want to discourage of you, Trot, but we're a'most as
much separated from your Ozma an' Dorothy as we were when we lived in
Californy."

There was so much truth in this statement that they all walked on in
silence for some time. Finally they reached the grove of stately trees
that bordered the grounds of the King's castle. They had gone halfway
through it when the sound of sobbing, as of someone in bitter distress,
reached their ears and caused them to halt abruptly.




Chapter Ten

Pon, the Gardener's Boy


It was Button-Bright who first discovered, lying on his face beneath a
broad spreading tree near the pathway, a young man whose body shook
with the force of his sobs. He was dressed in a long brown smock and
had sandals on his feet, betokening one in humble life. His head was
bare and showed a shock of brown, curly hair. Button-Bright looked down
on the young man and said:

"Who cares, anyhow?"

"I do!" cried the young man, interrupting his sobs to roll over, face
upward, that he might see who had spoken. "I care, for my heart is
broken!"

"Can't you get another one?" asked the little boy.

"I don't want another!" wailed the young man.

By this time Trot and Cap'n Bill arrived at the spot and the girl
leaned over and said in a sympathetic voice:

"Tell us your troubles and perhaps we may help you."

The youth sat up, then, and bowed politely. Afterward he got upon his
feet, but still kept wringing his hands as he tried to choke down his
sobs. Trot thought he was very brave to control such awful agony so
well.

"My name is Pon," he began. "I'm the gardener's boy."

"Then the gardener of the King is your father, I suppose," said Trot.

"Not my father, but my master," was the reply

"I do the work and the gardener gives the orders. And it was not my
fault, in the least, that the Princess Gloria fell in love with me."

"Did she, really?" asked the little girl.

"I don't see why," remarked Button-Bright, staring at the youth.

"And who may the Princess Gloria be?" inquired Cap'n Bill.

"She is the niece of King Krewl, who is her guardian. The Princess
lives in the castle and is the loveliest and sweetest maiden in all
Jinxland. She is fond of flowers and used to walk in the gardens with
her attendants. At such times, if I was working at my tasks, I used to
cast down my eyes as Gloria passed me; but one day I glanced up and
found her gazing at me with a very tender look in her eyes. The next
day she dismissed her attendants and, coming to my side, began to talk
with me. She said I had touched her heart as no other young man had
ever done. I kissed her hand. Just then the King came around a bend in
the walk. He struck me with his fist and kicked me with his foot. Then
he seized the arm of the Princess and rudely dragged her into the
castle."

"Wasn't he awful!" gasped Trot indignantly.

"He is a very abrupt King," said Pon, "so it was the least I could
expect. Up to that time I had not thought of loving Princess Gloria,
but realizing it would be impolite not to return her love, I did so. We
met at evening, now and then, and she told me the King wanted her to
marry a rich courtier named Googly-Goo, who is old enough to be
Gloria's father. She has refused Googly-Goo thirty-nine times, but he
still persists and has brought many rich presents to bribe the King. On
that account King Krewl has commanded his niece to marry the old man,
but the Princess has assured me, time and again, that she will wed only
me. This morning we happened to meet in the grape arbor and as I was
respectfully saluting the cheek of the Princess, two of the King's
guards seized me and beat me terribly before the very eyes of Gloria,
whom the King himself held back so she could not interfere."

"Why, this King must be a monster!" cried Trot.

"He is far worse than that," said Pon, mournfully.

"But, see here," interrupted Cap'n Bill, who had listened carefully to
Pon. "This King may not be so much to blame, after all. Kings are proud
folks, because they're so high an' mighty, an' it isn't reasonable for
a royal Princess to marry a common gardener's boy."

"It isn't right," declared Button-Bright. "A Princess should marry a
Prince."

"I'm not a common gardener's boy," protested Pon. "If I had my rights I
would be the King instead of Krewl. As it is, I'm a Prince, and as
royal as any man in Jinxland."

"How does that come?" asked Cap'n Bill.

"My father used to be the King and Krewl was his Prime Minister. But
one day while out hunting, King Phearse--that was my father's name--had
a quarrel with Krewl and tapped him gently on the nose with the
knuckles of his closed hand. This so provoked the wicked Krewl that he
tripped my father backward, so that he fell into a deep pond. At once
Krewl threw in a mass of heavy stones, which so weighted down my poor
father that his body could not rise again to the surface. It is
impossible to kill anyone in this land, as perhaps you know, but when
my father was pressed down into the mud at the bottom of the deep pool
and the stones held him so he could never escape, he was of no more use
to himself or the world than if he had died. Knowing this, Krewl
proclaimed himself King, taking possession of the royal castle and
driving all my father's people out. I was a small boy, then, but when I
grew up I became a gardener. I have served King Krewl without his
knowing that I am the son of the same King Phearse whom he so cruelly
made away with."

"My, but that's a terr'bly exciting story!" said Trot, drawing a long
breath. "But tell us, Pon, who was Gloria's father?"

"Oh, he was the King before my father," replied Pon. "Father was Prime
Minister for King Kynd, who was Gloria's father. She was only a baby
when King Kynd fell into the Great Gulf that lies just this side of the
mountains--the same mountains that separate Jinxland from the rest of
the Land of Oz. It is said the Great Gulf has no bottom; but, however
that may be, King Kynd has never been seen again and my father became
King in his place."

"Seems to me," said Trot, "that if Gloria had her rights she would be
Queen of Jinxland."

"Well, her father was a King," admitted Pon, "and so was my father; so
we are of equal rank, although she's a great lady and I'm a humble
gardener's boy. I can't see why we should not marry if we want to
except that King Krewl won't let us."

"It's a sort of mixed-up mess, taken altogether," remarked Cap'n Bill.
"But we are on our way to visit King Krewl, and if we get a chance,
young man, we'll put in a good word for you."

"Do, please!" begged Pon.

"Was it the flogging you got that broke your heart?" inquired
Button-Bright.

"Why, it helped to break it, of course," said Pon.

"I'd get it fixed up, if I were you," advised the boy, tossing a pebble
at a chipmunk in a tree. "You ought to give Gloria just as good a heart
as she gives you."

"That's common sense," agreed Cap'n Bill. So they left the gardener's
boy standing beside the path, and resumed their journey toward the
castle.




Chapter Eleven

The Wicked King and Googly-Goo


When our friends approached the great doorway of the castle they found
it guarded by several soldiers dressed in splendid uniforms. They were
armed with swords and lances. Cap'n Bill walked straight up to them and
asked:

"Does the King happen to be at home?"

"His Magnificent and Glorious Majesty, King Krewl, is at present
inhabiting his Royal Castle," was the stiff reply.

"Then I guess we'll go in an' say how-d'ye-do," continued Cap'n Bill,
attempting to enter the doorway. But a soldier barred his way with a
lance.

"Who are you, what are your names, and where do you come from?"
demanded the soldier.

"You wouldn't know if we told you," returned the sailor, "seein' as
we're strangers in a strange land."

"Oh, if you are strangers you will be permitted to enter," said the
soldier, lowering his lance. "His Majesty is very fond of strangers."

"Do many strangers come here?" asked Trot.

"You are the first that ever came to our country," said the man. "But
his Majesty has often said that if strangers ever arrived in Jinxland
he would see that they had a very exciting time."

Cap'n Bill scratched his chin thoughtfully. He wasn't very favorably
impressed by this last remark. But he decided that as there was no way
of escape from Jinxland it would be wise to confront the King boldly
and try to win his favor. So they entered the castle, escorted by one
of the soldiers.

It was certainly a fine castle, with many large rooms, all beautifully
furnished. The passages were winding and handsomely decorated, and
after following several of these the soldier led them into an open
court that occupied the very center of the huge building. It was
surrounded on every side by high turreted walls, and contained beds of
flowers, fountains and walks of many colored marbles which were matched
together in quaint designs. In an open space near the middle of the
court they saw a group of courtiers and their ladies, who surrounded a
lean man who wore upon his head a jeweled crown. His face was hard and
sullen and through the slits of his half-closed eyelids the eyes glowed
like coals of fire. He was dressed in brilliant satins and velvets and
was seated in a golden throne-chair.

This personage was King Krewl, and as soon as Cap'n Bill saw him the
old sailor knew at once that he was not going to like the King of
Jinxland.

"Hello! who's here?" said his Majesty, with a deep scowl.

"Strangers, Sire," answered the soldier, bowing so low that his
forehead touched the marble tiles.

"Strangers, eh? Well, well; what an unexpected visit! Advance,
strangers, and give an account of yourselves."

The King's voice was as harsh as his features. Trot shuddered a little
but Cap'n Bill calmly replied:

"There ain't much for us to say, 'cept as we've arrived to look over
your country an' see how we like it. Judgin' from the way you speak,
you don't know who we are, or you'd be jumpin' up to shake hands an'
offer us seats. Kings usually treat us pretty well, in the great big
Outside World where we come from, but in this little kingdom--which
don't amount to much, anyhow--folks don't seem to 'a' got much
culchure."

The King listened with amazement to this bold speech, first with a
frown and then gazing at the two children and the old sailor with
evident curiosity. The courtiers were dumb with fear, for no one had
ever dared speak in such a manner to their self-willed, cruel King
before. His Majesty, however, was somewhat frightened, for cruel people
are always cowards, and he feared these mysterious strangers might
possess magic powers that would destroy him unless he treated them
well. So he commanded his people to give the new arrivals seats, and
they obeyed with trembling haste.

After being seated, Cap'n Bill lighted his pipe and began puffing smoke
from it, a sight so strange to them that it filled them all with
wonder. Presently the King asked:

"How did you penetrate to this hidden country? Did you cross the desert
or the mountains?"

"Desert," answered Cap'n Bill, as if the task were too easy to be worth
talking about.

"Indeed! No one has ever been able to do that before," said the King.

"Well, it's easy enough, if you know how," asserted Cap'n Bill, so
carelessly that it greatly impressed his hearers. The King shifted in
his throne uneasily. He was more afraid of these strangers than before.

"Do you intend to stay long in Jinxland?" was his next anxious question.

"Depends on how we like it," said Cap'n Bill. "Just now I might suggest
to your Majesty to order some rooms got ready for us in your dinky
little castle here. And a royal banquet, with some fried onions an'
pickled tripe, would set easy on our stomicks an' make us a bit happier
than we are now."

"Your wishes shall be attended to," said King Krewl, but his eyes
flashed from between their slits in a wicked way that made Trot hope
the food wouldn't be poisoned. At the King's command several of his
attendants hastened away to give the proper orders to the castle
servants and no sooner were they gone than a skinny old man entered the
courtyard and bowed before the King.

This disagreeable person was dressed in rich velvets, with many
furbelows and laces. He was covered with golden chains, finely wrought
rings and jeweled ornaments. He walked with mincing steps and glared at
all the courtiers as if he considered himself far superior to any or
all of them.

"Well, well, your Majesty; what news--what news?" he demanded, in a
shrill, cracked voice.

The King gave him a surly look.

"No news, Lord Googly-Goo, except that strangers have arrived," he said.

Googly-Goo cast a contemptuous glance at Cap'n Bill and a disdainful
one at Trot and Button-Bright. Then he said:

"Strangers do not interest me, your Majesty. But the Princess Gloria is
very interesting--very interesting, indeed!  What does she say, Sire?
Will she marry me?"

"Ask her," retorted the King.

"I have, many times; and every time she has refused."

"Well?" said the King harshly.

"Well," said Googly-Goo in a jaunty tone, "a bird that can sing, and
won't sing, must be made to sing."

"Huh!" sneered the King. "That's easy, with a bird; but a girl is
harder to manage."

"Still," persisted Googly-Goo, "we must overcome difficulties. The
chief trouble is that Gloria fancies she loves that miserable
gardener's boy, Pon. Suppose we throw Pon into the Great Gulf, your
Majesty?"

"It would do you no good," returned the King. "She would still love
him."

"Too bad, too bad!" sighed Googly-Goo. "I have laid aside more than a
bushel of precious gems--each worth a king's ransom--to present to your
Majesty on the day I wed Gloria."

The King's eyes sparkled, for he loved wealth above everything; but the
next moment he frowned deeply again.

"It won't help us to kill Pon," he muttered. "What we must do is kill
Gloria's love for Pon."

"That is better, if you can find a way to do it," agreed Googly-Goo.
"Everything would come right if you could kill Gloria's love for that
gardener's boy. Really, Sire, now that I come to think of it, there
must be fully a bushel and a half of those jewels!"

Just then a messenger entered the court to say that the banquet was
prepared for the strangers. So Cap'n Bill, Trot and Button-Bright
entered the castle and were taken to a room where a fine feast was
spread upon the table.

"I don't like that Lord Googly-Goo," remarked Trot as she was busily
eating.

"Nor I," said Cap'n Bill. "But from the talk we heard I guess the
gardener's boy won't get the Princess."

"Perhaps not," returned the girl; "but I hope old Googly doesn't get
her, either."

"The King means to sell her for all those jewels," observed
Button-Bright, his mouth half full of cake and jam.

"Poor Princess!" sighed Trot. "I'm sorry for her, although I've never
seen her. But if she says no to Googly-Goo, and means it, what can they
do?"

"Don't let us worry about a strange Princess," advised Cap'n Bill.
"I've a notion we're not too safe, ourselves, with this cruel King."

The two children felt the same way and all three were rather solemn
during the remainder of the meal.

When they had eaten, the servants escorted them to their rooms. Cap'n
Bill's room was way to one end of the castle, very high up, and Trot's
room was at the opposite end, rather low down. As for Button-Bright,
they placed him in the middle, so that all were as far apart as they
could possibly be. They didn't like this arrangement very well, but all
the rooms were handsomely furnished and being guests of the King they
dared not complain.

After the strangers had left the courtyard the King and Googly-Goo had
a long talk together, and the King said:

"I cannot force Gloria to marry you just now, because those strangers
may interfere. I suspect that the wooden-legged man possesses great
magical powers, or he would never have been able to carry himself and
those children across the deadly desert."

"I don't like him; he looks dangerous," answered Googly-Goo. "But
perhaps you are mistaken about his being a wizard. Why don't you test
his powers?"

"How?" asked the King.

"Send for the Wicked Witch. She will tell you in a moment whether that
wooden-legged person is a common man or a magician."

"Ha! that's a good idea," cried the King. "Why didn't I think of the
Wicked Witch before? But the woman demands rich rewards for her
services."

"Never mind; I will pay her," promised the wealthy Googly-Goo.

So a servant was dispatched to summon the Wicked Witch, who lived but a
few leagues from King Krewl's castle. While they awaited her, the
withered old courtier proposed that they pay a visit to Princess Gloria
and see if she was not now in a more complaisant mood. So the two
started away together and searched the castle over without finding
Gloria.

At last Googly-Goo suggested she might be in the rear garden, which was
a large park filled with bushes and trees and surrounded by a high
wall. And what was their anger, when they turned a corner of the path,
to find in a quiet nook the beautiful Princess, and kneeling before
her, Pon, the gardener's boy! With a roar of rage the King dashed
forward; but Pon had scaled the wall by means of a ladder, which still
stood in its place, and when he saw the King coming he ran up the
ladder and made good his escape. But this left Gloria confronted by her
angry guardian, the King, and by old Googly-Goo, who was trembling with
a fury he could not express in words.

Seizing the Princess by her arm the King dragged her back to the
castle. Pushing her into a room on the lower floor he locked the door
upon the unhappy girl. And at that moment the arrival of the Wicked
Witch was announced.

Hearing this, the King smiled, as a tiger smiles, showing his teeth.
And Googly-Goo smiled, as a serpent smiles, for he had no teeth except
a couple of fangs. And having frightened each other with these smiles
the two dreadful men went away to the Royal Council Chamber to meet the
Wicked Witch.




Chapter Twelve

The Wooden-Legged Grass-Hopper


Now it so happened that Trot, from the window of her room, had
witnessed the meeting of the lovers in the garden and had seen the King
come and drag Gloria away. The little girl's heart went out in sympathy
for the poor Princess, who seemed to her to be one of the sweetest and
loveliest young ladies she had ever seen, so she crept along the
passages and from a hidden niche saw Gloria locked in her room.

The key was still in the lock, so when the King had gone away, followed
by Googly-Goo, Trot stole up to the door, turned the key and entered.
The Princess lay prone upon a couch, sobbing bitterly. Trot went up to
her and smoothed her hair and tried to comfort her.

"Don't cry," she said. "I've unlocked the door, so you can go away any
time you want to."

"It isn't that," sobbed the Princess. "I am unhappy because they will
not let me love Pon, the gardener's boy!"

"Well, never mind; Pon isn't any great shakes, anyhow, seems to me,"
said Trot soothingly. "There are lots of other people you can love."

Gloria rolled over on the couch and looked at the little girl
reproachfully.

"Pon has won my heart, and I can't help loving him," she explained.
Then with sudden indignation she added: "But I'll never love
Googly-Goo--never, as long as I live!"

"I should say not!" replied Trot. "Pon may not be much good, but old
Googly is very, very bad. Hunt around, and I'm sure you'll find someone
worth your love. You're very pretty, you know, and almost anyone ought
to love you."

"You don't understand, my dear," said Gloria, as she wiped the tears
from her eyes with a dainty lace handkerchief bordered with pearls.
"When you are older you will realize that a young lady cannot decide
whom she will love, or choose the most worthy. Her heart alone decides
for her, and whomsoever her heart selects, she must love, whether he
amounts to much or not."

Trot was a little puzzled by this speech, which seemed to her
unreasonable; but she made no reply and presently Gloria's grief
softened and she began to question the little girl about herself and
her adventures. Trot told her how they had happened to come to
Jinxland, and all about Cap'n Bill and the Ork and Pessim and the Bumpy
Man.

While they were thus conversing together, getting more and more
friendly as they became better acquainted, in the Council Chamber the
King and Googly-Goo were talking with the Wicked Witch.

This evil creature was old and ugly. She had lost one eye and wore a
black patch over it, so the people of Jinxland had named her "Blinkie."
Of course witches are forbidden to exist in the Land of Oz, but
Jinxland was so far removed from the center of Ozma's dominions, and so
absolutely cut off from it by the steep mountains and the bottomless
gulf, that the laws of Oz were not obeyed very well in that country. So
there were several witches in Jinxland who were the terror of the
people, but King Krewl favored them and permitted them to exercise
their evil sorcery.

Blinkie was the leader of all the other witches and therefore the most
hated and feared. The King used her witchcraft at times to assist him
in carrying out his cruelties and revenge, but he was always obliged to
pay Blinkie large sums of money or heaps of precious jewels before she
would undertake an enchantment. This made him hate the old woman almost
as much as his subjects did, but to-day Lord Googly-Goo had agreed to
pay the witch's price, so the King greeted her with gracious favor.

"Can you destroy the love of Princess Gloria for the gardener's boy?"
inquired his Majesty.

The Wicked Witch thought about it before she replied:

"That's a hard question to answer. I can do lots of clever magic, but
love is a stubborn thing to conquer. When you think you've killed it,
it's liable to bob up again as strong as ever. I believe love and cats
have nine lives. In other words, killing love is a hard job, even for a
skillful witch, but I believe I can do something that will answer your
purpose just as well."

"What is that?" asked the King.

"I can freeze the girl's heart. I've got a special incantation for
that, and when Gloria's heart is thoroughly frozen she can no longer
love Pon."

"Just the thing!" exclaimed Googly-Goo, and the King was likewise much
pleased.

They bargained a long time as to the price, but finally the old
courtier agreed to pay the Wicked Witch's demands. It was arranged that
they should take Gloria to Blinkie's house the next day, to have her
heart frozen.

Then King Krewl mentioned to the old hag the strangers who had that day
arrived in Jinxland, and said to her:

"I think the two children--the boy and the girl--are unable to harm me,
but I have a suspicion that the wooden-legged man is a powerful wizard."

The witch's face wore a troubled look when she heard this.

"If you are right," she said, "this wizard might spoil my incantation
and interfere with me in other ways. So it will be best for me to meet
this stranger at once and match my magic against his, to decide which
is the stronger."

"All right," said the King. "Come with me and I will lead you to the
man's room."

Googly-Goo did not accompany them, as he was obliged to go home to get
the money and jewels he had promised to pay old Blinkie, so the other
two climbed several flights of stairs and went through many passages
until they came to the room occupied by Cap'n Bill.

The sailor-man, finding his bed soft and inviting, and being tired with
the adventures he had experienced, had decided to take a nap. When the
Wicked Witch and the King softly opened his door and entered, Cap'n
Bill was snoring with such vigor that he did not hear them at all.

Blinkie approached the bed and with her one eye anxiously stared at the
sleeping stranger.

"Ah," she said in a soft whisper, "I believe you are right, King Krewl.
The man looks to me like a very powerful wizard. But by good luck I
have caught him asleep, so I shall transform him before he wakes up,
giving him such a form that he will be unable to oppose me."

"Careful!" cautioned the King, also speaking low. "If he discovers what
you are doing he may destroy you, and that would annoy me because I
need you to attend to Gloria."

But the Wicked Witch realized as well as he did that she must be
careful. She carried over her arm a black bag, from which she now drew
several packets carefully wrapped in paper. Three of these she
selected, replacing the others in the bag. Two of the packets she mixed
together, and then she cautiously opened the third.

"Better stand back, your Majesty," she advised, "for if this powder
falls on you you might be transformed yourself."

The King hastily retreated to the end of the room. As Blinkie mixed the
third powder with the others she waved her hands over it, mumbled a few
words, and then backed away as quickly as she could.

Cap'n Bill was slumbering peacefully, all unconscious of what was going
on. Puff! A great cloud of smoke rolled over the bed and completely hid
him from view. When the smoke rolled away, both Blinkie and the King
saw that the body of the stranger had quite disappeared, while in his
place, crouching in the middle of the bed, was a little gray
grasshopper.

One curious thing about this grasshopper was that the last joint of its
left leg was made of wood. Another curious thing--considering it was a
grasshopper--was that it began talking, crying out in a tiny but sharp
voice:

"Here--you people! What do you mean by treating me so? Put me back
where I belong, at once, or you'll be sorry!"

The cruel King turned pale at hearing the grasshopper's threats, but
the Wicked Witch merely laughed in derision. Then she raised her stick
and aimed a vicious blow at the grasshopper, but before the stick
struck the bed the tiny hopper made a marvelous jump--marvelous,
indeed, when we consider that it had a wooden leg. It rose in the air
and sailed across the room and passed right through the open window,
where it disappeared from their view.

"Good!" shouted the King. "We are well rid of this desperate wizard."
And then they both laughed heartily at the success of the incantation,
and went away to complete their horrid plans.

After Trot had visited a time with Princess Gloria, the little girl
went to Button-Bright's room but did not find him there. Then she went
to Cap'n Bill's room, but he was not there because the witch and the
King had been there before her. So she made her way downstairs and
questioned the servants. They said they had seen the little boy go out
into the garden, some time ago, but the old man with the wooden leg
they had not seen at all.

Therefore Trot, not knowing what else to do, rambled through the great
gardens, seeking for Button-Bright or Cap'n Bill and not finding either
of them. This part of the garden, which lay before the castle, was not
walled in, but extended to the roadway, and the paths were open to the
edge of the forest; so, after two hours of vain search for her friends,
the little girl returned to the castle.

But at the doorway a soldier stopped her.

"I live here," said Trot, "so it's all right to let me in. The King has
given me a room."

"Well, he has taken it back again," was the soldier's reply. "His
Majesty's orders are to turn you away if you attempt to enter. I am
also ordered to forbid the boy, your companion, to again enter the
King's castle."

"How 'bout Cap'n Bill?" she inquired.

"Why, it seems he has mysteriously disappeared," replied the soldier,
shaking his head ominously. "Where he has gone to, I can't make out,
but I can assure you he is no longer in this castle. I'm sorry, little
girl, to disappoint you. Don't blame me; I must obey my master's
orders."

Now, all her life Trot had been accustomed to depend on Cap'n Bill, so
when this good friend was suddenly taken from her she felt very
miserable and forlorn indeed. She was brave enough not to cry before
the soldier, or even to let him see her grief and anxiety, but after
she was turned away from the castle she sought a quiet bench in the
garden and for a time sobbed as if her heart would break.

It was Button-Bright who found her, at last, just as the sun had set
and the shades of evening were falling. He also had been turned away
from the King's castle, when he tried to enter it, and in the park he
came across Trot.

"Never mind," said the boy. "We can find a place to sleep."

"I want Cap'n Bill," wailed the girl.

"Well, so do I," was the reply. "But we haven't got him. Where do you
s'pose he is, Trot?

"I don't s'pose anything. He's gone, an' that's all I know 'bout it."

Button-Bright sat on the bench beside her and thrust his hands in the
pockets of his knickerbockers. Then he reflected somewhat gravely for
him.

"Cap'n Bill isn't around here," he said, letting his eyes wander over
the dim garden, "so we must go somewhere else if we want to find him.
Besides, it's fast getting dark, and if we want to find a place to
sleep we must get busy while we can see where to go."

He rose from the bench as he said this and Trot also jumped up, drying
her eyes on her apron. Then she walked beside him out of the grounds of
the King's castle. They did not go by the main path, but passed through
an opening in a hedge and found themselves in a small but well-worn
roadway. Following this for some distance, along a winding way, they
came upon no house or building that would afford them refuge for the
night. It became so dark that they could scarcely see their way, and
finally Trot stopped and suggested that they camp under a tree.

"All right," said Button-Bright, "I've often found that leaves make a
good warm blanket. But--look there, Trot!--isn't that a light flashing
over yonder?"

"It certainly is, Button-Bright. Let's go over and see if it's a house.
Whoever lives there couldn't treat us worse than the King did."

To reach the light they had to leave the road, so they stumbled over
hillocks and brushwood, hand in hand, keeping the tiny speck of light
always in sight.

They were rather forlorn little waifs, outcasts in a strange country
and forsaken by their only friend and guardian, Cap'n Bill. So they
were very glad when finally they reached a small cottage and, looking
in through its one window, saw Pon, the gardener's boy, sitting by a
fire of twigs.

As Trot opened the door and walked boldly in, Pon sprang up to greet
them. They told him of Cap'n Bill's disappearance and how they had been
turned out of the King's castle. As they finished the story Pon shook
his head sadly.

"King Krewl is plotting mischief, I fear," said he, "for to-day he sent
for old Blinkie, the Wicked Witch, and with my own eyes I saw her come
from the castle and hobble away toward her hut. She had been with the
King and Googly-Goo, and I was afraid they were going to work some
enchantment on Gloria so she would no longer love me. But perhaps the
witch was only called to the castle to enchant your friend, Cap'n Bill."

"Could she do that?" asked Trot, horrified by the suggestion.

"I suppose so, for old Blinkie can do a lot of wicked magical things."

"What sort of an enchantment could she put on Cap'n Bill?"

"I don't know. But he has disappeared, so I'm pretty certain she has
done something dreadful to him. But don't worry. If it has happened, it
can't be helped, and if it hasn't happened we may be able to find him
in the morning."

With this Pon went to the cupboard and brought food for them. Trot was
far too worried to eat, but Button-Bright made a good supper from the
simple food and then lay down before the fire and went to sleep. The
little girl and the gardener's boy, however, sat for a long time
staring into the fire, busy with their thoughts. But at last Trot, too,
became sleepy and Pon gently covered her with the one blanket he
possessed. Then he threw more wood on the fire and laid himself down
before it, next to Button-Bright. Soon all three were fast asleep. They
were in a good deal of trouble; but they were young, and sleep was good
to them because for a time it made them forget.




Chapter Thirteen

Glinda the Good and the Scarecrow of Oz


That country south of the Emerald City, in the Land of Oz, is known as
the Quadling Country, and in the very southernmost part of it stands a
splendid palace in which lives Glinda the Good.

Glinda is the Royal Sorceress of Oz. She has wonderful magical powers
and uses them only to benefit the subjects of Ozma's kingdom. Even the
famous Wizard of Oz pays tribute to her, for Glinda taught him all the
real magic he knows, and she is his superior in all sorts of sorcery
Everyone loves Glinda, from the dainty and exquisite Ruler, Ozma, down
to the humblest inhabitant of Oz, for she is always kindly and helpful
and willing to listen to their troubles, however busy she may be. No
one knows her age, but all can see how beautiful and stately she is.
Her hair is like red gold and finer than the finest silken strands. Her
eyes are blue as the sky and always frank and smiling. Her cheeks are
the envy of peach-blows and her mouth is enticing as a rosebud. Glinda
is tall and wears splendid gowns that trail behind her as she walks.
She wears no jewels, for her beauty would shame them.

For attendants Glinda has half a hundred of the loveliest girls in Oz.
They are gathered from all over Oz, from among the Winkies, the
Munchkins, the Gillikins and the Quadlings, as well as from Ozma's
magnificent Emerald City, and it is considered a great favor to be
allowed to serve the Royal Sorceress.

Among the many wonderful things in Glinda's palace is the Great Book of
Records. In this book is inscribed everything that takes place in all
the world, just the instant it happens; so that by referring to its
pages Glinda knows what is taking place far and near, in every country
that exists. In this way she learns when and where she can help any in
distress or danger, and although her duties are confined to assisting
those who inhabit the Land of Oz, she is always interested in what
takes place in the unprotected outside world.

So it was that on a certain evening Glinda sat in her library,
surrounded by a bevy of her maids, who were engaged in spinning,
weaving and embroidery, when an attendant announced the arrival at the
palace of the Scarecrow.

This personage was one of the most famous and popular in all the Land
of Oz. His body was merely a suit of Munchkin clothes stuffed with
straw, but his head was a round sack filled with bran, with which the
Wizard of Oz had mixed some magic brains of a very superior sort. The
eyes, nose and mouth of the Scarecrow were painted upon the front of
the sack, as were his ears, and since this quaint being had been
endowed with life, the expression of his face was very interesting, if
somewhat comical.

The Scarecrow was good all through, even to his brains, and while he
was naturally awkward in his movements and lacked the neat symmetry of
other people, his disposition was so kind and considerate and he was so
obliging and honest, that all who knew him loved him, and there were
few people in Oz who had not met our Scarecrow and made his
acquaintance. He lived part of the time in Ozma's palace at the Emerald
City, part of the time in his own corncob castle in the Winkie Country,
and part of the time he traveled over all Oz, visiting with the people
and playing with the children, whom he dearly loved.

It was on one of his wandering journeys that the Scarecrow had arrived
at Glinda's palace, and the Sorceress at once made him welcome. As he
sat beside her, talking of his adventures, he asked:

"What's new in the way of news?"

Glinda opened her Great Book of Records and read some of the last pages.

"Here is an item quite curious and interesting," she announced, an
accent of surprise in her voice. "Three people from the big Outside
World have arrived in Jinxland."

"Where is Jinxland?" inquired the Scarecrow.

"Very near here, a little to the east of us," she said. "In fact,
Jinxland is a little slice taken off the Quadling Country, but
separated from it by a range of high mountains, at the foot of which
lies a wide, deep gulf that is supposed to be impassable."

"Then Jinxland is really a part of the Land of Oz," said he.

"Yes," returned Glinda, "but Oz people know nothing of it, except what
is recorded here in my book."

"What does the Book say about it?" asked the Scarecrow.

"It is ruled by a wicked man called King Krewl, although he has no
right to the title. Most of the people are good, but they are very
timid and live in constant fear of their fierce ruler. There are also
several Wicked Witches who keep the inhabitants of Jinxland in a state
of terror."

"Do those witches have any magical powers?" inquired the Scarecrow.

"Yes, they seem to understand witchcraft in its most evil form, for one
of them has just transformed a respectable and honest old sailor--one
of the strangers who arrived there--into a grasshopper. This same
witch, Blinkie by name, is also planning to freeze the heart of a
beautiful Jinxland girl named Princess Gloria."

"Why, that's a dreadful thing to do!" exclaimed the Scarecrow.

Glinda's face was very grave. She read in her book how Trot and
Button-Bright were turned out of the King's castle, and how they found
refuge in the hut of Pon, the gardener's boy.

"I'm afraid those helpless earth people will endure much suffering in
Jinxland, even if the wicked King and the witches permit them to live,"
said the good Sorceress, thoughtfully. "I wish I might help them."

"Can I do anything?" asked the Scarecrow, anxiously. "If so, tell me
what to do, and I'll do it."

For a few moments Glinda did not reply, but sat musing over the
records. Then she said: "I am going to send you to Jinxland, to protect
Trot and Button-Bright and Cap'n Bill."

"All right," answered the Scarecrow in a cheerful voice. "I know
Button-Bright already, for he has been in the Land of Oz before. You
remember he went away from the Land of Oz in one of our Wizard's big
bubbles."

"Yes," said Glinda, "I remember that." Then she carefully instructed
the Scarecrow what to do and gave him certain magical things which he
placed in the pockets of his ragged Munchkin coat.

"As you have no need to sleep," said she, "you may as well start at
once."

"The night is the same as day to me," he replied, "except that I cannot
see my way so well in the dark."

"I will furnish a light to guide you," promised the Sorceress.

So the Scarecrow bade her good-bye and at once started on his journey.
By morning he had reached the mountains that separated the Quadling
Country from Jinxland. The sides of these mountains were too steep to
climb, but the Scarecrow took a small rope from his pocket and tossed
one end upward, into the air. The rope unwound itself for hundreds of
feet, until it caught upon a peak of rock at the very top of a
mountain, for it was a magic rope furnished him by Glinda. The
Scarecrow climbed the rope and, after pulling it up, let it down on the
other side of the mountain range. When he descended the rope on this
side he found himself in Jinxland, but at his feet yawned the Great
Gulf, which must be crossed before he could proceed any farther.

The Scarecrow knelt down and examined the ground carefully, and in a
moment he discovered a fuzzy brown spider that had rolled itself into a
ball. So he took two tiny pills from his pocket and laid them beside
the spider, which unrolled itself and quickly ate up the pills. Then
the Scarecrow said in a voice of command:

"Spin!" and the spider obeyed instantly.

In a few moments the little creature had spun two slender but strong
strands that reached way across the gulf, one being five or six feet
above the other. When these were completed the Scarecrow started across
the tiny bridge, walking upon one strand as a person walks upon a rope,
and holding to the upper strand with his hands to prevent him from
losing his balance and toppling over into the gulf. The tiny threads
held him safely, thanks to the strength given them by the magic pills.

Presently he was safe across and standing on the plains of Jinxland.
Far away he could see the towers of the King's castle and toward this
he at once began to walk.




Chapter Fourteen

The Frozen Heart


In the hut of Pon, the gardener's boy, Button-Bright was the first to
waken in the morning. Leaving his companions still asleep, he went out
into the fresh morning air and saw some blackberries growing on bushes
in a field not far away. Going to the bushes he found the berries ripe
and sweet, so he began eating them. More bushes were scattered over the
fields, so the boy wandered on, from bush to bush, without paying any
heed to where he was wandering. Then a butterfly fluttered by. He gave
chase to it and followed it a long way. When finally he paused to look
around him, Button-Bright could see no sign of Pon's house, nor had he
the slightest idea in which direction it lay.

"Well, I'm lost again," he remarked to himself. "But never mind; I've
been lost lots of times. Someone is sure to find me."

Trot was a little worried about Button-Bright when she awoke and found
him gone. Knowing how careless he was, she believed that he had strayed
away, but felt that he would come back in time, because he had a habit
of not staying lost. Pon got the little girl some food for her
breakfast and then together they went out of the hut and stood in the
sunshine.

Pon's house was some distance off the road, but they could see it from
where they stood and both gave a start of surprise when they discovered
two soldiers walking along the roadway and escorting Princess Gloria
between them. The poor girl had her hands bound together, to prevent
her from struggling, and the soldiers rudely dragged her forward when
her steps seemed to lag.

Behind this group came King Krewl, wearing his jeweled crown and
swinging in his hand a slender golden staff with a ball of clustered
gems at one end.

"Where are they going?" asked Trot. "To the house of the Wicked Witch,
I fear," Pon replied. "Come, let us follow them, for I am sure they
intend to harm my dear Gloria."

"Won't they see us?" she asked timidly.

"We won't let them. I know a short cut through the trees to Blinkie's
house," said he.

So they hurried away through the trees and reached the house of the
witch ahead of the King and his soldiers. Hiding themselves in the
shrubbery, they watched the approach of poor Gloria and her escort, all
of whom passed so near to them that Pon could have put out a hand and
touched his sweetheart, had he dared to.

Blinkie's house had eight sides, with a door and a window in each side.
Smoke was coming out of the chimney and as the guards brought Gloria to
one of the doors it was opened by the old witch in person. She chuckled
with evil glee and rubbed her skinny hands together to show the delight
with which she greeted her victim, for Blinkie was pleased to be able
to perform her wicked rites on one so fair and sweet as the Princess.

Gloria struggled to resist when they bade her enter the house, so the
soldiers forced her through the doorway and even the King gave her a
shove as he followed close behind. Pon was so incensed at the cruelty
shown Gloria that he forgot all caution and rushed forward to enter the
house also; but one of the soldiers prevented him, pushing the
gardener's boy away with violence and slamming the door in his face.

"Never mind," said Trot soothingly, as Pon rose from where he had
fallen. "You couldn't do much to help the poor Princess if you were
inside. How unfortunate it is that you are in love with her!"

"True," he answered sadly, "it is indeed my misfortune. If I did not
love her, it would be none of my business what the King did to his
niece Gloria; but the unlucky circumstance of my loving her makes it my
duty to defend her."

"I don't see how you can, duty or no duty," observed Trot.

"No; I am powerless, for they are stronger than I. But we might peek in
through the window and see what they are doing."

Trot was somewhat curious, too, so they crept up to one of the windows
and looked in, and it so happened that those inside the witch's house
were so busy they did not notice that Pon and Trot were watching them.

Gloria had been tied to a stout post in the center of the room and the
King was giving the Wicked Witch a quantity of money and jewels, which
Googly-Goo had provided in payment. When this had been done the King
said to her:

"Are you perfectly sure you can freeze this maiden's heart, so that she
will no longer love that low gardener's boy?"

"Sure as witchcraft, your Majesty," the creature replied.

"Then get to work," said the King. "There may be some unpleasant
features about the ceremony that would annoy me, so I'll bid you good
day and leave you to carry out your contract. One word, however: If you
fail, I shall burn you at the stake!" Then he beckoned to his soldiers
to follow him, and throwing wide the door of the house walked out.

This action was so sudden that King Krewl almost caught Trot and Pon
eavesdropping, but they managed to run around the house before he saw
them. Away he marched, up the road, followed by his men, heartlessly
leaving Gloria to the mercies of old Blinkie.

When they again crept up to the window, Trot and Pon saw Blinkie
gloating over her victim. Although nearly fainting from fear, the proud
Princess gazed with haughty defiance into the face of the wicked
creature; but she was bound so tightly to the post that she could do no
more to express her loathing.

Pretty soon Blinkie went to a kettle that was swinging by a chain over
the fire and tossed into it several magical compounds. The kettle gave
three flashes, and at every flash another witch appeared in the room.

These hags were very ugly but when one-eyed Blinkie whispered her
orders to them they grinned with joy as they began dancing around
Gloria. First one and then another cast something into the kettle, when
to the astonishment of the watchers at the window all three of the old
women were instantly transformed into maidens of exquisite beauty,
dressed in the daintiest costumes imaginable. Only their eyes could not
be disguised, and an evil glare still shone in their depths. But if the
eyes were cast down or hidden, one could not help but admire these
beautiful creatures, even with the knowledge that they were mere
illusions of witchcraft.

Trot certainly admired them, for she had never seen anything so dainty
and bewitching, but her attention was quickly drawn to their deeds
instead of their persons, and then horror replaced admiration. Into the
kettle old Blinkie poured another mess from a big brass bottle she took
from a chest, and this made the kettle begin to bubble and smoke
violently. One by one the beautiful witches approached to stir the
contents of the kettle and to mutter a magic charm. Their movements
were graceful and rhythmic and the Wicked Witch who had called them to
her aid watched them with an evil grin upon her wrinkled face.

Finally the incantation was complete. The kettle ceased bubbling and
together the witches lifted it from the fire. Then Blinkie brought a
wooden ladle and filled it from the contents of the kettle. Going with
the spoon to Princess Gloria she cried:

"Love no more! Magic art Now will freeze your mortal heart!"

With this she dashed the contents of the ladle full upon Gloria's
breast.

Trot saw the body of the Princess become transparent, so that her
beating heart showed plainly. But now the heart turned from a vivid red
to gray, and then to white. A layer of frost formed about it and tiny
icicles clung to its surface. Then slowly the body of the girl became
visible again and the heart was hidden from view. Gloria seemed to have
fainted, but now she recovered and, opening her beautiful eyes, stared
coldly and without emotion at the group of witches confronting her.

Blinkie and the others knew by that one cold look that their charm had
been successful. They burst into a chorus of wild laughter and the
three beautiful ones began dancing again, while Blinkie unbound the
Princess and set her free.

Trot rubbed her eyes to prove that she was wide awake and seeing
clearly, for her astonishment was great when the three lovely maidens
turned into ugly, crooked hags again, leaning on broomsticks and canes.
They jeered at Gloria, but the Princess regarded them with cold
disdain. Being now free, she walked to a door, opened it and passed
out. And the witches let her go.

Trot and Pon had been so intent upon this scene that in their eagerness
they had pressed quite hard against the window. Just as Gloria went out
of the house the window-sash broke loose from its fastenings and fell
with a crash into the room. The witches uttered a chorus of screams and
then, seeing that their magical incantation had been observed, they
rushed for the open window with uplifted broomsticks and canes. But Pon
was off like the wind, and Trot followed at his heels. Fear lent them
strength to run, to leap across ditches, to speed up the hills and to
vault the low fences as a deer would.

The band of witches had dashed through the window in pursuit; but
Blinkie was so old, and the others so crooked and awkward, that they
soon realized they would be unable to overtake the fugitives. So the
three who had been summoned by the Wicked Witch put their canes or
broomsticks between their legs and flew away through the air, quickly
disappearing against the blue sky. Blinkie, however, was so enraged at
Pon and Trot that she hobbled on in the direction they had taken, fully
determined to catch them, in time, and to punish them terribly for
spying upon her witchcraft.

When Pon and Trot had run so far that they were confident they had made
good their escape, they sat down near the edge of a forest to get their
breath again, for both were panting hard from their exertions. Trot was
the first to recover speech, and she said to her companion:

"My! wasn't it terr'ble?"

"The most terrible thing I ever saw," Pon agreed.

"And they froze Gloria's heart; so now she can't love you any more."

"Well, they froze her heart, to be sure," admitted Pon, "but I'm in
hopes I can melt it with my love."

"Where do you s'pose Gloria is?" asked the girl, after a pause.

"She left the witch's house just before we did. Perhaps she has gone
back to the King's castle," he said.

"I'm pretty sure she started off in a diff'rent direction," declared
Trot. "I looked over my shoulder, as I ran, to see how close the
witches were, and I'm sure I saw Gloria walking slowly away toward the
north."

"Then let us circle around that way," proposed Pon, "and perhaps we
shall meet her."

Trot agreed to this and they left the grove and began to circle around
toward the north, thus drawing nearer and nearer to old Blinkie's house
again. The Wicked Witch did not suspect this change of direction, so
when she came to the grove she passed through it and continued on.

Pon and Trot had reached a place less than half a mile from the witch's
house when they saw Gloria walking toward them. The Princess moved with
great dignity and with no show of haste whatever, holding her head high
and looking neither to right nor left.

Pon rushed forward, holding out his arms as if to embrace her and
calling her sweet names. But Gloria gazed upon him coldly and repelled
him with a haughty gesture. At this the poor gardener's boy sank upon
his knees and hid his face in his arms, weeping bitter tears; but the
Princess was not at all moved by his distress. Passing him by, she drew
her skirts aside, as if unwilling they should touch him, and then she
walked up the path a way and hesitated, as if uncertain where to go
next.

Trot was grieved by Pon's sobs and indignant because Gloria treated him
so badly. But she remembered why.

"I guess your heart is frozen, all right," she said to the Princess.
Gloria nodded gravely, in reply, and then turned her back upon the
little girl. "Can't you like even me?" asked Trot, half pleadingly.

"No," said Gloria.

"Your voice sounds like a refrig'rator," sighed the little girl. "I'm
awful sorry for you, 'cause you were sweet an' nice to me before this
happened. You can't help it, of course; but it's a dreadful thing, jus'
the same."

"My heart is frozen to all mortal loves," announced Gloria, calmly. "I
do not love even myself."

"That's too bad," said Trot, "for, if you can't love anybody, you can't
expect anybody to love you."

"I do!" cried Pon. "I shall always love her."

"Well, you're just a gardener's boy," replied Trot, "and I didn't think
you 'mounted to much, from the first. I can love the old Princess
Gloria, with a warm heart an' nice manners, but this one gives me the
shivers."

"It's her icy heart, that's all," said Pon.

"That's enough," insisted Trot. "Seeing her heart isn't big enough to
skate on, I can't see that she's of any use to anyone. For my part, I'm
goin' to try to find Button-Bright an' Cap'n Bill."

"I will go with you," decided Pon. "It is evident that Gloria no longer
loves me and that her heart is frozen too stiff for me to melt it with
my own love; therefore I may as well help you to find your friends."

As Trot started off, Pon cast one more imploring look at the Princess,
who returned it with a chilly stare. So he followed after the little
girl.

As for the Princess, she hesitated a moment and then turned in the same
direction the others had taken, but going far more slowly. Soon she
heard footsteps pattering behind her, and up came Googly-Goo, a little
out of breath with running.

"Stop, Gloria!" he cried. "I have come to take you back to my mansion,
where we are to be married."

She looked at him wonderingly a moment, then tossed her head
disdainfully and walked on. But Googly-Goo kept beside her.

"What does this mean?" he demanded. "Haven't you discovered that you no
longer love that gardener's boy, who stood in my way?"

"Yes; I have discovered it," she replied. "My heart is frozen to all
mortal loves. I cannot love you, or Pon, or the cruel King my uncle, or
even myself. Go your way, Googly-Goo, for I will wed no one at all."

He stopped in dismay when he heard this, but in another minute he
exclaimed angrily:

"You must wed me, Princess Gloria, whether you want to or not! I paid
to have your heart frozen; I also paid the King to permit our marriage.
If you now refuse me it will mean that I have been
robbed--robbed--robbed of my precious money and jewels!"

He almost wept with despair, but she laughed a cold, bitter laugh and
passed on. Googly-Goo caught at her arm, as if to restrain her, but she
whirled and dealt him a blow that sent him reeling into a ditch beside
the path. Here he lay for a long time, half covered by muddy water,
dazed with surprise.

Finally the old courtier arose, dripping, and climbed from the ditch.
The Princess had gone; so, muttering threats of vengeance upon her,
upon the King and upon Blinkie, old Googly-Goo hobbled back to his
mansion to have the mud removed from his costly velvet clothes.




Chapter Fifteen

Trot Meets the Scarecrow


Trot and Pon covered many leagues of ground, searching through forests,
in fields and in many of the little villages of Jinxland, but could
find no trace of either Cap'n Bill or Button-Bright. Finally they
paused beside a cornfield and sat upon a stile to rest. Pon took some
apples from his pocket and gave one to Trot. Then he began eating
another himself, for this was their time for luncheon. When his apple
was finished Pon tossed the core into the field.

"Tchuk-tchuk!" said a strange voice. "What do you mean by hitting me in
the eye with an apple-core?"

Then rose up the form of the Scarecrow, who had hidden himself in the
cornfield while he examined Pon and Trot and decided whether they were
worthy to be helped.

"Excuse me," said Pon. "I didn't know you were there."

"How did you happen to be there, anyhow?" asked Trot.

The Scarecrow came forward with awkward steps and stood beside them.

"Ah, you are the gardener's boy," he said to Pon. Then he turned to
Trot. "And you are the little girl who came to Jinxland riding on a big
bird, and who has had the misfortune to lose her friend, Cap'n Bill,
and her chum, Button-Bright."

"Why, how did you know all that?" she inquired.

"I know a lot of things," replied the Scarecrow, winking at her
comically. "My brains are the Carefully-Assorted, Double-Distilled,
High-Efficiency sort that the Wizard of Oz makes. He admits, himself,
that my brains are the best he ever manufactured."

"I think I've heard of you," said Trot slowly, as she looked the
Scarecrow over with much interest; "but you used to live in the Land of
Oz."

"Oh, I do now," he replied cheerfully. "I've just come over the
mountains from the Quadling Country to see if I can be of any help to
you."

"Who, me?" asked Pon.

"No, the strangers from the big world. It seems they need looking
after."

"I'm doing that myself," said Pon, a little ungraciously. "If you will
pardon me for saying so, I don't see how a Scarecrow with painted eyes
can look after anyone."

"If you don't see that, you are more blind than the Scarecrow,"
asserted Trot. "He's a fairy man, Pon, and comes from the fairyland of
Oz, so he can do 'most anything. I hope," she added, turning to the
Scarecrow, "you can find Cap'n Bill for me."

"I will try, anyhow," he promised. "But who is that old woman who is
running toward us and shaking her stick at us?"

Trot and Pon turned around and both uttered an exclamation of fear. The
next instant they took to their heels and ran fast up the path. For it
was old Blinkie, the Wicked Witch, who had at last traced them to this
place. Her anger was so great that she was determined not to abandon
the chase of Pon and Trot until she had caught and punished them. The
Scarecrow understood at once that the old woman meant harm to his new
friends, so as she drew near he stepped before her. His appearance was
so sudden and unexpected that Blinkie ran into him and toppled him
over, but she tripped on his straw body and went rolling in the path
beside him.

The Scarecrow sat up and said: "I beg your pardon!" but she whacked him
with her stick and knocked him flat again. Then, furious with rage, the
old witch sprang upon her victim and began pulling the straw out of his
body. The poor Scarecrow was helpless to resist and in a few moments
all that was left of him was an empty suit of clothes and a heap of
straw beside it. Fortunately, Blinkie did not harm his head, for it
rolled into a little hollow and escaped her notice. Fearing that Pon
and Trot would escape her, she quickly resumed the chase and
disappeared over the brow of a hill, following the direction in which
she had seen them go.

Only a short time elapsed before a gray grasshopper with a wooden leg
came hopping along and lit directly on the upturned face of the
Scarecrow's head.

"Pardon me, but you are resting yourself upon my nose," remarked the
Scarecrow.

"Oh! are you alive?" asked the grasshopper.

"That is a question I have never been able to decide," said the
Scarecrow's head. "When my body is properly stuffed I have animation
and can move around as well as any live person. The brains in the head
you are now occupying as a throne, are of very superior quality and do
a lot of very clever thinking. But whether that is being alive, or not,
I cannot prove to you; for one who lives is liable to death, while I am
only liable to destruction."

"Seems to me," said the grasshopper, rubbing his nose with his front
legs, "that in your case it doesn't matter--unless you're destroyed
already."

"I am not; all I need is re-stuffing," declared the Scarecrow; "and if
Pon and Trot escape the witch, and come back here, I am sure they will
do me that favor."

"Tell me! Are Trot and Pon around here?" inquired the grasshopper, its
small voice trembling with excitement.

The Scarecrow did not answer at once, for both his eyes were staring
straight upward at a beautiful face that was slightly bent over his
head. It was, indeed, Princess Gloria, who had wandered to this spot,
very much surprised when she heard the Scarecrow's head talk and the
tiny gray grasshopper answer it.

"This," said the Scarecrow, still staring at her, "must be the Princess
who loves Pon, the gardener's boy."

"Oh, indeed!" exclaimed the grasshopper--who of course was Cap'n
Bill--as he examined the young lady curiously.

"No," said Gloria frigidly, "I do not love Pon, or anyone else, for the
Wicked Witch has frozen my heart."

"What a shame!" cried the Scarecrow. "One so lovely should be able to
love. But would you mind, my dear, stuffing that straw into my body
again?"

The dainty Princess glanced at the straw and at the well-worn blue
Munchkin clothes and shrank back in disdain. But she was spared from
refusing the Scarecrow's request by the appearance of Trot and Pon, who
had hidden in some bushes just over the brow of the hill and waited
until old Blinkie had passed them by. Their hiding place was on the
same side as the witch's blind eye, and she rushed on in the chase of
the girl and the youth without being aware that they had tricked her.

Trot was shocked at the Scarecrow's sad condition and at once began
putting the straw back into his body. Pon, at sight of Gloria, again
appealed to her to take pity on him, but the frozen-hearted Princess
turned coldly away and with a sigh the gardener's boy began to assist
Trot.

Neither of them at first noticed the small grasshopper, which at their
appearance had skipped off the Scarecrow's nose and was now clinging to
a wisp of grass beside the path, where he was not likely to be stepped
upon. Not until the Scarecrow had been neatly restuffed and set upon
his feet again--when he bowed to his restorers and expressed his
thanks--did the grasshopper move from his perch. Then he leaped lightly
into the path and called out:

"Trot--Trot! Look at me. I'm Cap'n Bill! See what the Wicked Witch has
done to me."

The voice was small, to be sure, but it reached Trot's ears and
startled her greatly. She looked intently at the grasshopper, her eyes
wide with fear at first; then she knelt down and, noticing the wooden
leg, she began to weep sorrowfully.

"Oh, Cap'n Bill--dear Cap'n Bill! What a cruel thing to do!" she sobbed.

"Don't cry, Trot," begged the grasshopper. "It didn't hurt any, and it
doesn't hurt now. But it's mighty inconvenient an' humiliatin', to say
the least."

"I wish," said the girl indignantly, while trying hard to restrain her
tears, "that I was big 'nough an' strong 'nough to give that horrid
witch a good beating. She ought to be turned into a toad for doing this
to you, Cap'n Bill!"

"Never mind," urged the Scarecrow, in a comforting voice, "such a
transformation doesn't last always, and as a general thing there's some
way to break the enchantment. I'm sure Glinda could do it, in a jiffy."

"Who is Glinda?" inquired Cap'n Bill.

Then the Scarecrow told them all about Glinda, not forgetting to
mention her beauty and goodness and her wonderful powers of magic. He
also explained how the Royal Sorceress had sent him to Jinxland
especially to help the strangers, whom she knew to be in danger because
of the wiles of the cruel King and the Wicked Witch.




Chapter Sixteen

Pon Summons the King to Surrender


Gloria had drawn near to the group to listen to their talk, and it
seemed to interest her in spite of her frigid manner. They knew, of
course, that the poor Princess could not help being cold and reserved,
so they tried not to blame her.

"I ought to have come here a little sooner," said the Scarecrow,
regretfully; "but Glinda sent me as soon as she discovered you were
here and were likely to get into trouble. And now that we are all
together--except Button-Bright, over whom it is useless to worry--I
propose we hold a council of war, to decide what is best to be done."

That seemed a wise thing to do, so they all sat down upon the grass,
including Gloria, and the grasshopper perched upon Trot's shoulder and
allowed her to stroke him gently with her hand.

"In the first place," began the Scarecrow, "this King Krewl is a
usurper and has no right to rule this Kingdom of Jinxland."

"That is true," said Pon, eagerly. "My father was King before him, and
I--"

"You are a gardener's boy," interrupted the Scarecrow. "Your father had
no right to rule, either, for the rightful King of this land was the
father of Princess Gloria, and only she is entitled to sit upon the
throne of Jinxland."

"Good!" exclaimed Trot. "But what'll we do with King Krewl? I s'pose he
won't give up the throne unless he has to."

"No, of course not," said the Scarecrow. "Therefore it will be our duty
to make him give up the throne."

"How?" asked Trot.

"Give me time to think," was the reply. "That's what my brains are for.
I don't know whether you people ever think, or not, but my brains are
the best that the Wizard of Oz ever turned out, and if I give them
plenty of time to work, the result usually surprises me."

"Take your time, then," suggested Trot. "There's no hurry."

"Thank you," said the straw man, and sat perfectly still for half an
hour. During this interval the grasshopper whispered in Trot's ear, to
which he was very close, and Trot whispered back to the grasshopper
sitting upon her shoulder. Pon cast loving glances at Gloria, who paid
not the slightest heed to them.

Finally the Scarecrow laughed aloud.

"Brains working?" inquired Trot.

"Yes. They seem in fine order to-day. We will conquer King Krewl and
put Gloria upon his throne as Queen of Jinxland."

"Fine!" cried the little girl, clapping her hands together gleefully.
"But how?"

"Leave the how to me," said the Scarecrow proudly. "As a conqueror I'm
a wonder. We will, first of all, write a message to send to King Krewl,
asking him to surrender. If he refuses, then we will make him
surrender."

"Why ask him, when we know he'll refuse?" inquired Pon.

"Why, we must be polite, whatever we do," explained the Scarecrow. "It
would be very rude to conquer a King without proper notice."

They found it difficult to write a message without paper, pen and ink,
none of which was at hand; so it was decided to send Pon as a
messenger, with instructions to ask the King, politely but firmly, to
surrender.

Pon was not anxious to be the messenger. Indeed, he hinted that it
might prove a dangerous mission. But the Scarecrow was now the
acknowledged head of the Army of Conquest, and he would listen to no
refusal. So off Pon started for the King's castle, and the others
accompanied him as far as his hut, where they had decided to await the
gardener's boy's return.

I think it was because Pon had known the Scarecrow such a short time
that he lacked confidence in the straw man's wisdom. It was easy to
say: "We will conquer King Krewl," but when Pon drew near to the great
castle he began to doubt the ability of a straw-stuffed man, a girl, a
grasshopper and a frozen-hearted Princess to do it. As for himself, he
had never thought of defying the King before.

That was why the gardener's boy was not very bold when he entered the
castle and passed through to the enclosed court where the King was just
then seated, with his favorite courtiers around him. None prevented
Pon's entrance, because he was known to be the gardener's boy, but when
the King saw him he began to frown fiercely. He considered Pon to be to
blame for all his trouble with Princess Gloria, who since her heart had
been frozen had escaped to some unknown place, instead of returning to
the castle to wed Googly-Goo, as she had been expected to do. So the
King bared his teeth angrily as he demanded:

"What have you done with Princess Gloria?"

"Nothing, your Majesty! I have done nothing at all," answered Pon in a
faltering voice. "She does not love me any more and even refuses to
speak to me."

"Then why are you here, you rascal?" roared the King.

Pon looked first one way and then another, but saw no means of escape;
so he plucked up courage.

"I am here to summon your Majesty to surrender."

"What!" shouted the King. "Surrender?  Surrender to whom?"

Pon's heart sank to his boots.

"To the Scarecrow," he replied.

Some of the courtiers began to titter, but King Krewl was greatly
annoyed. He sprang up and began to beat poor Pon with the golden staff
he carried. Pon howled lustily and would have run away had not two of
the soldiers held him until his Majesty was exhausted with punishing
the boy. Then they let him go and he left the castle and returned along
the road, sobbing at every step because his body was so sore and aching.

"Well," said the Scarecrow, "did the King surrender?"

"No; but he gave me a good drubbing!" sobbed poor Pon.

Trot was very sorry for Pon, but Gloria did not seem affected in any
way by her lover's anguish. The grasshopper leaped to the Scarecrow's
shoulder and asked him what he was going to do next.

"Conquer," was the reply. "But I will go alone, this time, for beatings
cannot hurt me at all; nor can lance thrusts--or sword cuts--or arrow
pricks."

"Why is that?" inquired Trot.

"Because I have no nerves, such as you meat people possess. Even
grasshoppers have nerves, but straw doesn't; so whatever they
do--except just one thing--they cannot injure me. Therefore I expect to
conquer King Krewl with ease."

"What is that one thing you excepted?" asked Trot.

"They will never think of it, so never mind. And now, if you will
kindly excuse me for a time, I'll go over to the castle and do my
conquering."

"You have no weapons," Pon reminded him.

"True," said the Scarecrow. "But if I carried weapons I might injure
someone--perhaps seriously--and that would make me unhappy. I will just
borrow that riding-whip, which I see in the corner of your hut, if you
don't mind. It isn't exactly proper to walk with a riding-whip, but I
trust you will excuse the inconsistency."

Pon handed him the whip and the Scarecrow bowed to all the party and
left the hut, proceeding leisurely along the way to the King's castle.




Chapter Seventeen

The Ork Rescues Button-Bright

